--- PAGE 1 ---
CON 3900V: 
CON Certification Exam Prep Course
Discussion Session #1
Contracting Foundational Skills


--- PAGE 2 ---
Session 1 Topics
The CON Certification exam (CON 3990V) will 
consist of:
• Skills and Roles – 6 questions
• Communication & Documentation – 6 questions
• Standards of Conduct – 6 questions
• Situational Assessment – 3 questions
• Team Dynamics – 3 questions
• Contract Principles – 18 questions
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Distribution of Questions
3
Competency Questions Competency Questions Competency Questions
1.1 Skills and 
Roles 6 1.2 Contract 
Principles 18 1.3 Standards of 
Conduct 6
1.5 Situational 
Assessment 3 1.6 Team Dynamics 3 1.7 Communication 
and Documentation 6
2.1.1 Plan 
Solicitation 12 2.1.2 Request 
Offers 12 2.2.1 Plan Sales 3
2.2.2 Prepare 
Offer 3 3.1.1 Price or Cost 
Analysis 10 3.1.2 Plan Negotiations 10
3.1.3 Select 
Source 10 3.1.4 Manage 
Disagreements 10 4.1.1 Administer 
Contract 10
4.1.2 Ensure 
Quality 10 4.1.3 Manage 
Subcontracts 4 4.1.4 Manage Changes 10
4.2.1 Close Out 4
42
40
30
38

--- PAGE 4 ---
Life Cycle Phases? 
4
Contract Life Cycle

--- PAGE 5 ---
Which activities apply to each phase? Sort and Organize 
5www.DAU.edu
Pre-Award:
Stages:
1) Acq Planning
2) Solicitation
Award:
3) Evaluate
4) Award
Post-
Award:
5) Contract 
Administration
Ensure Quality
Plan Solicitation
Manage Changes
Modifications 
Administer Contract
Plan Negotiations
Price or Cost Analysis
Close Out Contract
Manage Disagreements
Disputes/Claims
5
Request Offers
Manage Subcontracts
Select Source(s)
Prepare OfferPlan Sales
Manage Disagreements
protests
3 Phases
5 stages
Manage Changes
Solicitation Amendment 
Manage Changes
Solicitation Amendment 
Request Offer
Modification

--- PAGE 6 ---
Common Forms
6
Facilities Capital 
Cost of Money
Weighted 
Guidelines
Abstract of Offers
Purchase Order-
Invoice-Voucher
Contract 
Security Specs
Contract 
Modifications
Link to SF forms: Forms | GSA
Link to DD forms: DoD Forms Management (whs.mil)
DFARS RFO 215.404
DFARS RFO 215.404
DFARS RFO 212.403
DFARS PGI 204.403(1)
I can’t find RFO citation
FAR RFO 14.403 RFO 43.401
Many more!
DD 1547
SF 44
SF 30
DD 254
DD 1861
SF 1409

--- PAGE 7 ---
Construction
Negotiated 
Contracts
Sealed Bid
Simplified 
Procedures
Commercial
7
Common Forms
SF 26
SF 1449
SF 33
SF 1442
DD 1155
SF 33
 SF 1449
SF 26
SF 1449

--- PAGE 8 ---
Conflicts of Interest
8
What am I?
Personal 
Conflict of 
Interest
Organizational  
Conflict of 
Interest
2. I’m covered in RFO subpart 3.11.
3. I could potentially impair an employee’s ability to act impartially and in the 
best interest of the Government when performing under a contract.
5. Contractors are required to identify and prevent for their covered employees.
1. I’m covered in RFO subpart 9.5.
4. I could potentially present an unfair competitive advantage for a contractor 
competing for award.
6. Contracting Officers must analyze planned acquisitions to avoid, neutralize, 
or mitigate potential cases before award.

--- PAGE 9 ---
   
9
Communication & Documentation
6 questions
• Because we need to communicate effectively with 
industry.
• To ensure a clear understanding of our requirements 
(within the Government and industry).
• To allow industry to respond to our requirements – 
submit bids, proposals, quotes, or offers.
• To ensure we work together as an acquisition team.
• To document rationale for decisions made (F&R price, 
D&Fs, SSDD, COFD, etc).
• To withstand scrutiny of others (Business clearances, 
policy reviews, GAO, COFC, etc.) and many others…
See the FAR 1.102(a)(6) and FAR Companion (FC) FC 1.102-2(a)(6) and FAR 4.101 and FC 4.101

--- PAGE 10 ---
Hint: FAR part 1
FC 1.102(a)(6)
10
Emphasize Successful Results
What can contracting officers do 
to improve the chances of 
successful contract execution?
• Clear and frequent communication with Government and 
industry.
• Understand the requirement and communicate it to 
industry.
• Encourage business process innovations.  (FAR 
1.102(b)(3))
• Ensure business decisions are sound. (FAR 1.102(b)(2))
• Maintain professionalism at all times.
• Others…

--- PAGE 11 ---
Tell us what you know about the topic in less than 20 seconds
11
First Thought
Treatment of 
Contractors
Electronic 
Commerce
Price 
Negotiation 
Memorandum
• COR – eyes and ears of the contracting officer.  KOs must designate CORs in writing and furnish a copy to the contractor and the contract 
administration office. (FAR 1.404(a))
• D&Fs – documents business decisions; a prerequisite to taking certain contract actions.  Findings are statements of fact or rationale to 
support the determination.  Determination is a conclusion.  (FAR 1.501)
• Treatment of contractors – KOs shall ensure contractors receive impartial, fair, and equitable treatment. (FAR 1.402-2(c))
• Justification and Approval – when a KO negotiates sole source or does not provide for full and open competition.  Requires justification and 
approval for the action.  (FAR 6.104(a), 6.103, 6.104-2)
• Disseminating information – must synopsize in the GPE proposed contract actions expected to exceed $20K. (FAR 5.101(a))
• PNMs – documents principal elements of a negotiated agreement.  Includes 11 required elements.
• Contract files – they tell the history of an acquisition.  FAR 4.101 addresses establishing contract files.
• Post-Award Orientation – conducted to ensure the contracting parties have a clear and mutual understanding of all contract requirements, to 
establish clear expectations, spot potential issues early, and build a solid working relationship from the start. (FC 42.3)
• Electronic Commerce – KOs shall use whenever practicable or cost-effective. (FAR 4.002)
• Standards of Conduct – FAR 3.101-1 - Government business shall be conducted in a manner above reproach…with complete impartiality and 
with preferential treatment for none. The general rule is to avoid strictly any conflict of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of 
interest in Government-contractor relationships.
• Cost, Quality, Timeliness - a guiding principle is to satisfy customers in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness of the delivered product or 
service.  (FAR 1.101(a))  Many subtopics here.
• Meaning of Words – FAR 1.107(a) and FAR 2.101(a) state that a word or a term, defined in this section, has the same meaning throughout this 
regulation (FAR), unless- The context in which the word or term is used clearly requires a different meaning; or Another FAR part, subpart, or 
section provides a different definition for the particular part or portion of the part.
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Standards of Conduct – 6 Questions
The purpose of          
this competency is      
to create trust and 
confidence in the 
integrity of the   
contract management 
process.

--- PAGE 13 ---
Ethical behavior
Solicitation and acceptance of 
gratuities by Gov’t personnel
Subcontractor kickbacks
Disclosures (unauthorized)
Source selection information
Contracts with Government 
employees
Personal conflicts of interest
Organizational conflicts of 
interest
Contractor may be unable to provide impartial advice 
or obtain an unfair competitive advantage
Just say no
Make known any contractor bid or proposal
information
Information for the purpose of evaluating a bid
or proposal
Do not knowingly award
Could impair the employee’s ability to act impartially 
and in the Govt’s best interest
Avoid a conflict of interest or even the appearance of 
a conflict of interest
Providing or accepting payments to reward favorable 
treatment in connection with a prime contract
13
Improper Business Practices and Conflicts of Interest

--- PAGE 14 ---
Discuss 
14
Contract Principles – 18 Questions
Let’s 
Discuss

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
Elements of a 
Contract
Types of 
Authority
Implied
Mutual Assent Actual
Apparent
Capacity
ExpressConsideration
Lawful Purpose
File the terms 
correctly
Contract Elements & Authorities

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
Authorities

--- PAGE 17 ---
The basic elements required for the agreement to be a legally contract are: mutual assent, expressed by a valid offer and 
acceptance; adequate consideration; capacity; and legality.
1. Actual authority may also be implied actual authority.  Implied actual authority differs from express actual authority 
in that no express agreement is executed. While the Contracting Officer has actual expressed authority, the 
Contracting Officer also has implied authority to do what is usual, customary and necessary to carry out what is in 
their warrant.  
2. Express actual authority: Is created by explicit language, either in writing or verbal. It should be noted that the 
spoken word is generally as binding as the written word; however it enforceable is sometimes more difficult to prove.
3. Implied actual authority: Is usually defined in general terms to include authority to do what is usual, customary and 
necessary to accomplish the action.  When an individual is assigned a task to accomplish but the minor details are 
not spelled out either verbally or in writing, this is an example of implied actual authority.
4. Apparent authority: Exists when someone reasonably believes an individual has the authority to act on behalf of the 
Government, based on his or her conduct, even though that individual has no actual authority to bind the 
Government.
5. Consideration: Is something of value that a promisor (the offeror) receives from a promisee (the offeree) in return for 
his or her offer.  It is the primary reason a party would seek to enter a contract. Consideration can take many forms, 
such as money, a promise, an action or nonaction, or property.  Without consideration, a contract is not enforceable.
6. Lawful purpose:. A contract is unenforceable if any term of the agreement is contrary to public policy.  Public policy 
are governmental policies regarding public morals, health, safety, and welfare that affect the whole population. A 
contract cannot be enforced if any term of the agreement is against the law or if the enforcement of any term of the 
agreement would harm the state or its citizens.  
7. Capacity: To be legally bound to a contract, a party must have the capacity to understand and appreciate the terms 
of the contract 
8. Mutual assent: Is when each party either makes a promise or begins to render performance. It normally takes the 
form of an offer by one party and acceptance by the other party.
Elements & Authorities

--- PAGE 18 ---
Who has capacity to contract?
18
Adult = Yes
Child = No
No reason to 
think the 
individual does 
not have capacity
Not if they 
are 
“impaired”
Incarceration 
does not 
eliminate 
authority.
Example: hire an 
attorney
Who has capacity to contract?

--- PAGE 19 ---
Consideration is something of value that a promisor receives from a 
promisee in return for his or her offer. It is usually either the result of:
• a promise to do something you're not legally obligated to do, or a 
promise not to do something you have the right to do (often, this means 
a promise not to file a lawsuit). Consideration can take many forms, such 
as money, a promise, action or nonaction, or property
• For example:
- I pay a contractor to design and build a deck for my home.
- I do not ground my teenagers if they respect curfew and come home on 
time.
19
Consideration

--- PAGE 20 ---
20
Market Research – Commercial Solutions
Commercial 
Products and 
Services

--- PAGE 21 ---
Go to FAR 2.101 and read:
   Commercial Product
   Commercial Service
   Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item
21
Market Research – 
Commercial Products or Commercial Services


--- PAGE 22 ---
22
Competition Requirements
Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 FAR part 6, Competition Requirements
The RFO makes significant renumbering changes from the FAR. Pay special attention to the changes under 
Full and Open After Exclusion of Sources – a lot of the content has been removed from part 6.

--- PAGE 23 ---
1. Competition in contracting begins with the inputs from your market research.
• determine if sources capable of satisfying the agency’s requirements already exist and 
• if any commercial items are suitable to meet the Government’s needs. 
2. If so, it is incumbent on the Contracting Officer to ensure that all sources of the 
requirement are afforded equal opportunity to satisfy the Government’s requirements by 
submitting an offer.  We do this by publicizing the contract action and encouraging 
competition.
3. Why competition?
• Because it’s the law.
• It tends to result in better prices
• It improves the quality of goods and services
• It provides an opportunity for the Government to get the best value
4. The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984, better known as CICA, is codified in 10 U.S. Code 2304 
and is incorporated into FAR part 6, Competition Requirements.  Generally, unless an exception 
applies or is otherwise expressly authorized by statute, Contracting Officers shall promote and 
provide for full and open competition in soliciting offers and awarding Government contracts.
23
Competition Requirements

--- PAGE 24 ---
• FAR part 6 does not apply to SAP (FAR 6.001(a))  (see 12.102) instead for commercial sole 
source.
• Three Levels of Competition under CICA
1. Full and Open Competition 
2. Full and Open After Exclusion of Sources (3 Categories, RFO 19 adds 5 socio-economic 
programs) Does not require a J&A
3. Other than Full and Open Competition (7 Exceptions) Most Require a J&A
• Sealed bidding and competitive proposals, as described in parts  14 and 15, are both 
acceptable procedures for use under  6.101, 6.102; and, when appropriate, under 6.103.
• FAR 6.101(b)(1) Sealed bids. (See part 14 for procedures.)  Use sealed bids only when the 
contracting officer has found that all of the following apply:
(i) Time permits staff to solicit, submit, and evaluate sealed bids;
(ii) The award will be made on the basis of price and other price-related factors;
(iii) Discussion with bidders is unnecessary; and
(iv) Contracting officers reasonably expect to receive more than one sealed bid.
24
Competition– Other Things to Consider


--- PAGE 25 ---
• Different levels of competition
• Types of contracting officers
• UCF
• Communications
• OCI vs PCI
• Role of the COR
• FAR Part 1 –  Guiding Principles,  D&F, Deviations, Role of the Team
• Basic Forms
• FAR parts
• The definition of commercial – what is commercial
www.DAU.edu25
Topics you need to know!

--- PAGE 26 ---
Check for Understanding
Session 1


--- PAGE 27 ---
A. When requirements are being developed
B. All phases of the acquisition
C. After award to ensure that a contractor’s product or 
service is compliant
D. During negotiations to ensure that an offeror’s proposal 
is fair and reasonable
27
Market research is conducted during 
which phase of acquisition?

--- PAGE 28 ---
A. Extraordinary action
B. Exception
C. Deviation
D. Prescription
28
What is the use of a procedure that is 
inconsistent with the FAR?

--- PAGE 29 ---
A. Contracting Officer
B. Administrative Contracting Officer
C. Executive Contracting Officer
D. Terminating Contracting Officer
29
Which is NOT a type of contracting 
officer?

--- PAGE 30 ---
A. Ensure the contract meets all requirements of law, 
Executive orders, and regulations
B. Ensure the contract terms eliminate all Government risk
C. Ensure funds are available for obligation
D. Ensure all applicable procedures, to include clearances 
and approvals, have been met
30
Which is NOT one of the contracting 
officer’s responsibilities before signing 
a contract?

--- PAGE 31 ---
A. They only apply after contract award
B. They can be superseded by a solicitation provision
C. They are used in contracts or in both solicitations and 
contracts, and apply after contract award or both before 
and after award
D. They only apply before contract award
31
Which of the following statements is 
correct regarding contract clauses?

--- PAGE 32 ---
A. Authority is never delegable
B. Each authority is delegable to no lower than one level above 
the contracting officer
C. Authority is only delegable where specifically stated in 
regulation
D. Each authority is delegable unless specifically stated otherwise
32
Which of these best conveys the FAR 
convention about delegation of authority?

--- PAGE 33 ---
A. FAR part 4
B. FAR part 5
C. FAR part 6
D. FAR part 7
33
Where in the FAR will you find guidance 
on how to establish, maintain, and 
dispose of Government contract files?

--- PAGE 34 ---
A. Granted the same level of authority as the contracting 
officer
B. Designated in writing, with a copy given to the contractor 
and the contract administration office
C. Permitted to further delegate any responsibilities assigned 
to them
D. Authorized to make changes to the price or other terms and 
conditions of the contract
34
The contracting officer’s representative 
(COR) must be:

--- PAGE 35 ---
A. They only include Government representatives from technical, 
supply, and procurement communities 
B. Due to privity of contract, only prime contractors (and not 
subcontractors) can be a part of the Team
C. The Acquisition Team’s activities conclude after contract award
D. They include Government representatives from multiple functions, 
the customers they serve, and the contractors who deliver the 
products and services
35
Which of the following is true regarding 
Acquisition Teams?

--- PAGE 36 ---
• Any questions?
• Session 2 focus: Contract Pre-Award
36
Session 1 Wrap-up