--- PAGE 1 ---
Here are some major topics that I studied, as well as speciﬁc questions from the CON 3910 course 
that I found useful in my studies. I found that once it was combined into one document, I found this 
much easier to read through. Also, make sure you learn the content in terms of applying it to 
scenarios. Finally, read FAR part 15 – the entire thing. I did this the morning of my exam, and it was 
SUPER helpful for several questions.  
 
FAR Parts (1-53) 
Part 1 – Federal Acquisition Regulations Systems. 
Part 2 – Definitions of Words and Terms. 
Part 3 – Improper Business Practices and Conflicts of Interest. 
Part 4 – Administrative and Information Matters (Find guidance on how to establish, maintain, and 
dispose of Government contract files). 
Part 5 – Publicizing Contract Actions. 
Part 6 – Competition Requirements. 
Part 7 – Acquisition Planning (As soon as the agency need is identified). 
Part 8 – Required Sources of Supplies and Services. 
Part 9 – Contract Qualifications – Organizational Conflict of Interest. 
Part 10 – Market Research – In all phases of acquisition; appropriate to the circumstances. 
Part 11 – Describing Agency Needs – Performed, physical characteristics. 
Part 12 – Acquisitions of Commercial Products and Services – Warranty pronouns, maximum extent even 
to subcontracts (Fixed Price Contracts). 
Part 13 – Simplified Acquisition Procedures – Promote competition to the max. 
Part 14 – Sealed Bidding. 
Part 15 – Contracting by Negotiation. 
Part 16 – Types of Contracts 
Part 19 – Small Business Program – KO should divide reasonably, plans not required for contracts w/ 
large businesses overseas. 
Part 31 – Contract Cost Principles and Procedures 
Part 32 – Contract Financing 
Part 33 – Protests, Disputes, and Appeals – Have timeframes 
Part 36 – Construction and Architect-Engineering Contracts 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Part 37 – Service Contracting 
Part 42 – Contract Administration and Audit Services 
Part 43 – Contract Modifications 
Part 44 – Subcontracting Policies and Procedures 
Part 45 – Government Property – The overall benefit to the acquisition significantly outweighs the 
increased cost of administration. 
Part 46- Quality Assurances – Applies to Government and Contractor. 
Part 49 – Termination of Contract 
Part 52 – Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses 
Part 53 – Forms 
 
 
Forms 
SF 26 – Award/Contract: Used to award negotiated contracts in which signatures of both parties on a 
single document is appropriate. 
SF 30 – Amendment to Solicitation/Modification of Contract: Used to amend any solicitation or modify 
any contract; changes clause is included. 
SF 33 – Solicitation, Offer, and Award: May be used to award either negotiated contracts or contracts 
utilizing sealed bidding. 
SF 44 – Purchase Order Invoice Voucher: Used for simplified acquisitions at or below the Micro Purchase 
Threshold, except for purchases under unusual and compelling urgency or in support of contingency 
operations. 
DD 254 – Contract Security Classification Specification: Used to provide security classification guidance 
to U.S. contractors and subcontractors as applicable, requiring access to information classified as 
“Confidential”, “Secret, “ or “Top Secret”. 
DD 1155 – Order of Supplies and Services: Used for placing orders under Indefinite-Delivery contracts or 
if the SF 1449 is not used under SAP. 
SF 1409 – Abstract of Offers: Prescribed for use in recording bids. 
SF 1442 – Solicitation, Offer, and Award (Construction, Alteration, Repair): Used for soliciting offers and 
awarding contracts expected to exceed the SAT. These acquisitions must be for construction, alteration, 
or repair; or dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
SF 1449 – Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Items: Required for solicitations for commercial 
items if the acquisition will exceed the SAT. It is encouraged for commercial acquisitions not exceeding 
the SAT. 
DD 1547 – Record of Weighted Guidelines Application: Used to facilitate a structured approach to 
profit/fee analysis. 
DD 1861 – Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money: Used to estimate the facilities capital cost of money 
and capital employed (used in conjunction with the CASB-CMP and cost money factors). 
 
 
 
Procurement Instrument Identiﬁer (PIID) 
A PIID is a unique number identifying each solicitation, contract, agreement, or order and related 
procurement instrument. 
Positions 1-6: Identify the department/agency and office issuing the instrument. 
Position 7-8: Fiscal Year of which the contract is awarded. 
Position 9: Type of instrument by entering letter designation. 
Position 10-17: Number assigned by issuing agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
Contract Instrument Designation Key 
A – BPAs 
B – IFBs 
C – Contracts of all types except Indefinite-Delivery Contracts 
D – Indefinite-Delivery Contracts (including FSSs, GWACs, and multi-agency contracts). 
E – Reserved for future Federal Government-wide use. 
F – Task orders, delivery orders, or calls under indefinite-delivery contracts (including FSSs, GWACs, and 
multi-agency contracts) BPAs, or basic ordering agreements. 
G – Basic ordering agreements. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
Uniform Contract Format (Noncommercial contracts and solicitation use UCF) 
COS shall prepare solicitations and resulting contracts using the UCF except for construction and 
architect-engineer contracts, subsistence contracts, supplies or service contracts requiring special 
contract formats prescribed elsewhere in this regulation that are inconsistent with the uniform format, 
letter requests for proposals, and contracts exempted by the agency head or designee. 
Solicitations using the UCF shall include Parts I, II, III, and IV. Upon award, COS shall not physically 
include Part IV in the resulting contract but shall retain it in the contract file. 
H – Agreements, including basic agreements and loan agreements, but excluding BPAs, basic ordering 
agreements, and leased. Do not use this code for contracts or agreements with provisions for orders or 
calls. 
I – Do not use this letter. 
J – Reserved for future Federal Government-wide use. 
K – Reserved for departmental or agency use. 
L – Lease Agreements 
M – Reserved for departmental or agency use. 
N – Reserved for departmental or agency use. 
O – Do not use this letter. 
P – Purchase orders (assigned V if numbering capacity of P is exhausted during a FY). 
Q – RFQs (Assign U if numbering capacity of Q is exhausted during a FY). 
R – RFPs. 
S – Reserved for departmental or agency use. 
T – Reserved for department or agency use. 
U – See Q, RFQs. 
V – See P, Pos 
W – Reserved for future Federal Government-wide use 
X – Reserved for future General Government-wide use 
Y – Imprest Fund 
Z – Reserved for future General Government-wide use. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Part I – The Schedule 
A – Solicitation/Contract Form 
B – Supplies or services and price/costs 
C – Description/specifications/SOW 
D – Packaging and Marking 
E – Inspection and Acceptance 
F – Deliveries or Performance 
G – Contract Administration Data 
H – Special contract requirements 
 
Part II – Contract Clause 
I – Contract Clauses 
• To maximum extent, rather than in full text. 
• Might require contractor to deliver by a speciﬁc date. 
• Term or conditions in contract or in both solicitation and contracts – that applies after 
contract award or both before and after award. 
Part III – List of Documents, Exhibits, and Other 
Attachments 
J – List of Attachments 
• Contract data required list here. 
• Two alpha characters. 
Part IV – Representation and Instructions 
K – Representations, certifications, and other statements of offerors or respondents. 
L – Instructions, conditions, and notices to offerors or respondents. 
M – Evaluation factors for award. 
 
Contract Types 
Fixed Price – Cost risk on the contractor. 
Time and Material contract types are used when it is not possible at the time to estimate accurately 
anticipate cost. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Used for Commercial Item or Sealed Bid Contracts: 
Firm-Fixed Price (FFP) (FAR 12-207(a) and FAR 16.201(a) 
Fixed Price with Economic Price Adjustment (FAR 14.104 and FAR 16.102(a). 
Examples of Incentive Contracts (FAR S Subpart 16.4): 
Fixed Price Incentive Firm/Successive 
Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF) 
Cost Plus Award Fee (CPAF) 
Contract Type that shall NOT be used FAR 16.102(c): 
Cost Plus Percentage of Cost 
 
MODS – 
Unilateral – make administrative changes 
Bilateral – deﬁnitize letter contracts 
Unilateral - Issue termination notices 
Bilateral - Make negotiated equitable adjustments resulting from the issuance of a change order 
 
 
Authorities: Each authority is delegable unless specifically stated otherwise (FAR 1.108(b). 
Actual Authority (Legally Binding) – may also be implied actual authority. Implied actual authority 
differs from express actual authority that no express agreement is executed. While the Contracting 
Officer has actual express authority, the Contracting Officer also has implied authority to do what is 
usual, customary and necessary to carry out what is in their warrant. 
Express Actual Authority – Is created by explicit language, either in writing or verbal. It should be noted 
that the spoken word is generally as binding as the written word; however enforceable is sometimes 
more difficult to prove. 
Implied Actual Authority – is usually defined in general terms to include authority to do what is usual, 
customary and necessary to accomplish the action. When an individual is assigned a task to accomplish 
but the minor details are not spelled out either verbally or in writing, this is an example of implied actual 
authority. 
Apparent Authority – Exists when someone reasonably believes an individual has the authority to act on 
behalf of the Government, based on his or her conduct, even though that individual has no actual 
authority to bind the Government. 
Capacity – To be legally bound to a contract, a party must have the capacity to understand and 
appreciate the terms of the contract. 
Consideration – Is something of value that a promisor (the offeror) receives from a promisee (the 
offeree) in return for his or her offer. It is the primary reason a party would see to enter a contract. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
Consideration can take many forms such as money, a promise, an action or non-action or property. 
Without consideration, a contract is not enforceable. 
Lawful Purpose – A contract is unenforceable if any term of the agreement is contrary to public policy. 
Public policy are governmental policies regarding public morals, health, safety, and welfare that affect 
the whole population. A contract cannot be enforced if any term of the agreement is against the law or 
if the enforcement of any term of the agreement would harm the state or its citizens. 
Mutual Assent – Is when each party either makes a promise, or begins to render performance. It 
normally takes the form of an offer by one party and acceptance by the other party. 
Trust – Business shall be conducted in a manner above reproach and except as authorized by statute or 
regulation, with complete impartiality and with preferential treatment of none. Transactions relating to 
the expenditure of public funds require the highest degree of public trust and an impeccable standard of 
conduct. 
Profit – Standards of conduct prohibit you from working on Government matters that will affect your 
own personal financial interest or the financial interest of certain other people. 
Obligation – Only a Contracting Officer may bind or obligate the government – make it legally 
enforceable. 
 
 
Competition Requirements FAR part 6 
Competition in Contracting Act of 1984. 
 
Who is the focal point for inquires after solicitation release? FAR 15.303(c)(1) “Contract Officer.” 
 
When does the acquisition planning begin? FAR 7.104(a) “As soon as the agency need is identified.” 
 
Before executing any contract, what must the Contracting Officer do? FAR 32.702 Contract Financing 
“Obtain written assurance from responsible fiscal authority that adequate funds are available and 
expressly condition the contract upon availability of funds”. 
 
***Contract payment will be based on receipt of a proper invoice and satisfactory contract performance 
FAR 32.905(a). 
Which is NOT an excusable delay? – Bad weather. 
***When late in paying an otherwise acceptable invoice, the Government will pay an interest penalty. 
FAR 32.907. 
***The due date for making an invoice payment is as follows: 
The 30th day after the designated billing office receives a proper invoice from the contractor. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
The 30th day after Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services performed*** 
FAR 32.904(b). 
 
Generally, contractors are not held liable for loss of Government property under the following types of 
contracts: 
Cost-Reimbursement  
Time-and- Materials 
 Labor-hour contracts 
Fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of submission of certified cost or pricing data. 
 
Government Property shall normally be provide on a rent-free basis in performance of the 
contract under which it is accountable or otherwise authorized. 
Who retains title to all Government furnished property until it is properly disposed of, as authorized by 
law or regulation? Government FAR 45.401 and FAR 52.245-1 
 
 
DFARS PGI is a companion resource to DFARS. 
The use of a procedure that is inconsistent with the FAR is a deviation (FAR 1.401 (a)). 
 
In order to document business decisions such as specific contract type – create a determinations and 
findings. 
 
Who develops a solicitation? 
• The Government 
• The buyer 
 
Who prepares an offer? 
• The contractor 
• The seller 
 
During the post-award phase while the contract is being performed, who has responsibility for 
quality?  The Seller  

--- PAGE 9 ---
It is the seller’s responsibility during the post-award phase to assure quality while the contract is 
being performed. 
 
Openness for the contracting officer applies primarily to?  
• The Acquisition Team 
• Contractors     
• Offerors 
• The Contracting Team 
 
You need to document a business decision, such as the use of a speciﬁc contract type.  What 
document will you create? 
• A Determination and Findings 
 
At the conclusion of negotiations, the contracting officer will complete a 
• Price Negotiation Memorandum 
 
Prior to negotiating a sole source contract, the contracting officer must complete a 
• Justiﬁcation and Approval 
 
Government business shall be conducted in a manner that is above reproach, with complete 
impartiality, and with preferential treatment for none. True  
 
No person or other entity may disclose contractor bid or proposal information or source selection 
information to any person other than a person authorized, in accordance with applicable agency 
regulations or procedures, by the agency head or the contracting officer to receive such 
information. True 
 
The Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 prohibits any person from: 
• Providing, attempting to provide, or offering to provide any kickback 
• Soliciting, accepting, or attempting to accept any kickback 

--- PAGE 10 ---
• Including, directly or indirectly, the amount of any kickback in the contract price charged by 
a subcontractor to a prime contractor or a higher tier subcontractor or in the contract price 
charged by a prime contractor to the United States. 
 
Federal employees are prohibited from soliciting or accepting gifts offered “because of the 
employee’s official position” or gifts offered by a “prohibited source. ”   True 
 
A “personal conﬂict of interest” is a situation where an individual is employed by a defense 
contractor company and is in a position to materially inﬂuence DOD’s recommendations and/or 
decisions and, because of his/her personal activities, relationships, or ﬁnancial interests, may lack 
or appear to lack objectivity or appear to be unduly inﬂuenced by personal ﬁnancial interest. True 
 
What are the broad categories of OCI:  
• Unequal access 
• Impaired Objectivity 
• Biased Ground Rules 
Unequal access, Impaired Objectivity and Biased Ground Rules are the correct selections. 
 
There are three basic approaches available to contractors and the Agency for dealing with OCI 
issues, as follows: 
• Avoid 
• Neutralize 
• Mitigate 
 
The vision of the Federal Acquisition System consists of:  
• Deliver on a timely basis the best-value products and services to the customer. 
• Maintain the public's trust and fulﬁll public policy objectives. 
Deliver on a timely basis the best-value products and services to the customer and maintain the 
public's trust and fulﬁll public policy objectives are the correct answers. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
Contracting Life-cycle costs consist of the following: 
• Acquisition costs 
• Supporting costs 
• Disposal costs 
• Operating costs 
 
Market research shall be conducted: 
• On an ongoing basis and appropriate to the circumstances 
 
IAW FAR 1.102-3, the Acquisition Team consists of participants who will participate in the 
acquisition process at the appropriate time. Select the appropriate groups to which these 
participants may belong (Select all that apply):  
• Customer (end-user) 
• Technical personnel 
• Contracting personnel 
• Contractor personnel 
 
Only the Contracting Officer is authorized to award, change, or terminate a contract 
 
The purpose of a post-award orientation is to  
• Achieve a clear and mutual understanding of all contract requirements. 
• Identify and resolve potential problems. 
 
Which authority is legally binding in Government contracting and recognized by the courts? 
Actual Authority 
 
In DoD contracting, who has the authority to enter into a legally binding contract? Contracting 
Officer 
 
Each authority is NOT delegable unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise. False 

--- PAGE 12 ---
Which of the following are essential elements of a contract (select all that apply)? 
• Capacity 
• Consideration 
• Mutual Assent 
• Lawful Purpose 
 
A contract is deﬁned as a mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller to furnish the 
supplies or services (including construction) and the buyer to pay for them. True 
 
Capacity is when each party either makes a promise or begins to render performance. False 
 
The extent of market research will vary, depending on such factors as urgency, estimated dollar 
value, complexity, and past experience. True 
 
Generally, unless an exception applies or is otherwise expressly authorized by statute, Contracting 
Officers shall promote and provide for full and open competition in soliciting offers and awarding 
Government contracts.   True 
 
The competitive procedures available for use in fulﬁlling the requirement for full and open 
competition are: 
• Sealed bids 
• Competitive proposals 
• Combination of competitive procedures 
• Other competitive procedures 
 
Agencies may exclude a particular source from a contract action in order to establish or maintain 
an alternative source or sources.  These include -  
• Establishing or maintaining alternate sources. 
• Set asides for small business concerns. 
• Section 8(a) competition. 
• Set asides for Hubzone small business concerns. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
• Set-asides for economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) 
concerns or women-owned small business (WOSB) concerns eligible under the WOSB 
Program. 
• Set-asides for local ﬁrms during a major disaster or emergency. 
 
The following statutory authorities (including applications and limitations) permit contracting 
without providing for full and open competition: (select 4 that apply). 
• Only one responsible source and no other supplies or services will satisfy agency 
requirements. 
• Unusual and compelling urgency. 
• National security. 
• Public Interest.   
 
 
Company A agrees to provide systems engineering and technical direction for the Navy on the 
powerplant for a group of submarines (i.e., turbines, drive shafts, propellers, etc.).  
Question: Should Company A be allowed to supply any powerplant components? 
No. Company A should not be allowed to supply any powerplant components. 
 
Question: Would Company A be allowed to supply components of the submarine unrelated to the 
powerplant (e.g., ﬁre control, navigation, etc.)? 
Yes 
Reference:   FAR 9.508(e): Company A can supply components of the submarine unrelated to the 
powerplant. In this example, the system is the powerplant, not the submarine. 
 
Acceptance constitutes acknowledgment that the supplies or services conform with applicable 
contract quality and quantity requirements, except as subject to other terms and conditions of the 
contract.  True 
 
Supplies accepted at a place other than Destination shall not be re-inspected at destination for 
acceptance purposes, but should be examined at destination for quantity, damage in transit, and 
possible substitution or fraud. 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
Title to supplies shall pass to the Government upon formal acceptance, regardless of when or 
where the Government takes physical possession, unless the contract speciﬁcally provides for 
earlier passage of title.  
True 
 
Except for defaults of subcontractors at any tier, the Contractor shall not be in default because of 
any failure to perform the contract under its terms if the failure arises from causes beyond the 
control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. 
True 
 
Examples of excusable delays are - (select all that apply). 
• Acts of the Government in either it's sovereign or contractual capacity 
• Fires 
• Quarantine restrictions 
• Freight embargoes 
 
There are two types of warranties:  Implied Warranties and Express Warranties. True 
 
When drafting solicitations and contracts, contracting officers must identify for each line item 
number, subline item number, or exhibit line item number the applicable Prompt Payment clauses 
that apply to each item when the solicitation or contract contains items that will be subject to 
different payment terms.  True 
 
Only contracting officers acting within the scope of their authority are empowered to execute 
contract modiﬁcations on behalf of the Government.  Government personnel shall not - (select all 
that apply). 
• Execute contract modiﬁcations. 
• Act in such a manner as to cause the contractor to believe that they have authority to bind 
the Government. 
• Direct or encourage the contractor to perform work that should be the subject of a contract 
modiﬁcation. 
 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
Contract modiﬁcations are of the following types:  
• Bilateral  
• Unilateral 
 
What are the two main types of terminations for non-commercial contracts? 
• Termination for Convenience 
• Termination for Default 
 
Termination for Cause is similar to a default termination except it applies to commercial contract 
formats.  True 
 
A cure notice is issued when:  
• Contractor fails to make progress and performance is endangered.   
• Performance problems do not involve terms for delivery. 
• At least 10 days remain for contract performance and correction of the problem can be 
reasonably expected in the time remaining.    
 
A show cause is used either after the cure notice fails to correct the delinquency or when there is 
insufficient time remaining in the schedule – less than 10 days.   
 
A CPARS is required for a contract exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold – FAR 42.1502(b) 
and is required at least annually FAR 42.1502(a). 
 
Acquisition planning should begin as soon as the agency need is identiﬁed. True 
 
What is the Government’s policy on describing agency needs?    
• Promote full & open competition 
• Minimize restrictive provisions 
• State requirements in terms of function, performance, & essential physical characteristics 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---
No officer or employee of the Government may create or authorize an obligation in excess of the 
funds available, or in advance of appropriations (Anti-Deﬁciency Act,31 U.S.C.1341), unless 
otherwise authorized by law.  True 
 
Conducting a Requirements Analysis means: 
• Conducting a systematic review of your requirement given the guidance captured from 
stakeholders during the planning phase 
• Describing the work in terms of required results, rather than either “how” the work is to be 
accomplished or the number of hours to be provided 
• Identifying the essential processes and outputs or results required 
 
The Government is ordinarily required to furnish all property necessary to perform Government 
contracts. False 
 
Market research means collecting and analyzing information about capabilities within the market to 
satisfy agency needs True 
 
What are the two different types of market research? 
• Tactical 
• Strategic 
 
What are some effective methods of industry engagement?  
• “Sources Sought” solicitation 
• Request for Information (RFI) distribution  
• Pre-Solicitation Conference or Industry Day 
• One-on-one interactions 
• Solicitation of feedback on Draft RFP 
 
Commercial product means:  
• Any product, other than real property, that is of a type customarily used by the general 
public or by non-governmental entities for purposes other than governmental purposes. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
• Any product that has been sold, leased, or licensed to the general public. 
• Any product that has been offered for sale, lease, or license to the general public. 
 
 
FAR part 12 does not apply to the acquisition of commercial items: 
• At or below the micro-purchase threshold. 
• Using the Standard Form 44 . 
• Using the imprest fund. 
• Using the Government-wide commercial purchase card as a method of purchase rather 
than only as a method of payment. 
• Directly from another Federal agency 
 
FAR part 13 prescribes Simpliﬁed Acquisition Procedures in order to - 
• Reduce administrative costs. 
• Improve opportunities for small, small disadvantaged, women-owned, veteran-owned, 
HUBZone, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns to obtain a fair 
proportion of Government contracts. 
• Promote efficiency and economy in contracting. 
• Avoid unnecessary burdens for agencies and contractors. 
 
Agencies shall use Simpliﬁed Acquisition Procedures to the maximum extent practicable for all 
purchases of supplies or services not exceeding the Simpliﬁed Acquisition Threshold (including 
purchases at or below the Micro-purchase Threshold). True 
 
Contracting officers shall solicit sealed bids if - (select all that apply). 
• Time permits the solicitation, submission, and evaluation of sealed bids. 
• The award will be made on the basis of price and other price-related factors. 
• It is not necessary to conduct discussions with the responding offerors about their bids. 
• There is a reasonable expectation of receiving more than one sealed bid. 
 

--- PAGE 18 ---
IAW FAR part 15, after evaluation of offers the contracting officer may hold negotiations with 
offerors in the competitive range, advising each of the deﬁciencies in its proposal, and request ﬁnal 
proposal revisions.  True 
Contract types vary according to the degree and timing of the responsibility assumed by the 
contractor for the costs of performance and the amount and nature of the proﬁt incentive offered to 
the contractor for achieving or exceeding goals. True 
 
What are the two broad categories of contract types? 
• Fixed Price 
• Cost Reimbursement 
 
A cost reimbursement type contract places upon the contractor maximum risk and responsibility 
for all costs and resulting proﬁt or loss.  False 
 
Cost-reimbursement types of contracts require the contractor to put forth a best effort to perform, 
and provide for payment of the contractor's allowable, allocable, and reasonable incurred costs. 
True 
 
A cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting is prohibited.  True 
 
What are the elements of a Fixed-Price Incentive Firm Contract?   
• Target Cost 
• Target Proﬁt 
• Ceiling Price 
• Proﬁt Adjustment Formula 
 
A Cost Plus Incentive Fee contract speciﬁes a target cost, a target fee, minimum and maximum 
fees, and a fee adjustment formula. True 
 
What are two forms of Cost Plus Fixed Fee contracts? 
• Term 
• Completion 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 


--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
A Procurement Instrument Identiﬁer (PIID) is a unique number identifying each solicitation, 
contract, agreement, or order and related procurement instrument. True 
 
Supplementary PIIDs are used to identify amendments to solicitations and modiﬁcations to 
contracts, orders, and agreements (FAR 4.1603(b)).  True 
 
The Uniform Contract Format (UCF) contains which of the following?  (select all that apply) 
• Part I - The Schedule 
• Part II - Contract Clauses 
• Part III - List of Documents, Exhibits, and Other Attachments 
• Part IV - Representations and Instructions 
 
Upon award, contracting officers shall not physically include Part IV in the resulting contract, but 
shall retain it in the contract ﬁle. The representations and certiﬁcations are incorporated by 
reference in the contract by using 52.204-19, or for acquisitions of commercial items, see 52.212-
4(v).  True 
 
One reason the FAR encourages exchanges with industry before receipt of proposals is to? 
• Improve the Government's understanding of industry capabilities. 
Communicating with industry helps Government officials make better decisions in terms of 
acquisition strategy, contract construction, and ﬂexibilities to best meet warﬁghter needs. 


--- PAGE 21 ---
 
Prior to receipt of proposals, one-on-one meetings with potential offerors are? Encouraged 
While not necessary, one-on-one meeting will provide potential offerors the opportunity to share 
ideas and concerns with Government officials without fear of exposure to competitors. This 
expands the chances that the Government will learn from industry. 
 
Deﬁning Department of Defense acquisition requirements so they can be met with commercial 
items is? Preferred 
Preferred is the correct answer; commercial items and services should be considered ﬁrst. They are 
generally available faster and at a lower cost. 
 
Industry participation in improving military acquisition requirements is? Encouraged 
Encouraged is the correct answer; we are encouraged to communicate with industry throughout the 
acquisition process. We must encourage dialogue without compromising industry proprietary 
information. After actual offers are received we must be sensitive to safeguarding competitive 
sensitive information. 
 
Market research helps contracting officers develop solicitation provisions and contract clauses. 
Information from market research can?  
• Uncover best commercial practices that business use to acquire similar goods and 
services. 
• Highlight commercial speciﬁcations that may meet military needs. 
• Identify restrictive terms that will reduce competition. 
• Deepen our understanding of the best criteria for selecting a company for contract award. 
They provide good reasons for performing market research to support developing solicitation and 
contract terms and conditions. 
 
A provision might…  tell a potential offeror how it's proposal will be evaluated and considered for 
selection for award 
A contract clause might?  
• Require a contractor to deliver an item by a speciﬁc date. 
 
 

--- PAGE 22 ---
A change to solicitation is called a(n) ______________________:  
• Amendment     
 
If a change is so substantial as to exceed what prospective offerors reasonably could have 
anticipated so that additional sources likely would have submitted offers had the substance of the 
amendment been known to them-  
• the contracting officer should cancel the original solicitation and issue a new one, 
regardless of the stage of the acquisition. 
 
The Government-wide Point of Entry is where the public can view current business opportunities for 
requirements valued- 
• Greater than $25,000 
 
For commercial acquisitions that exceed the Simpliﬁed Acquisition Threshold, the SF 1449- 
• Shall be used 
 
Contracting officers SHALL  prepare solicitations/invitations for bids using the Uniform Contract 
Format (UCF). FAR 14.201-1 and 15.204-1 say contracting officers SHALL use the UCF 
 
 
If you are limiting competition to establish or maintain an alternative source, this is called- 
• Full and open competition after exclusion of sources 
 
A responsible contractor is one who (select 4 that apply) 
• Has adequate ﬁnancial resources or the ability to obtain them 
• Is able to comply with the required or proposed delivery or performance schedule 
• Has a satisfactory performance record 
• Has a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---
A ﬁxed-price contract with economic price adjustment might be applicable when: Market or labor 
conditions are volatile and contingencies that would otherwise be included in the contract price 
can be identiﬁed and covered separately in the contract 
 
Costs that are expressly unallowable or mutually agreed to be unallowable shall be identiﬁed and 
excluded from any ________, _________, or __________ applicable to a Government contract. 
• Billing, claim, or proposal 
 
 
What is price: Cost plus any fee or proﬁt 
 
What is pricing: the process of establishing a reasonable amount or amounts to be paid for 
supplies or services 
 
True or false: each contract should be priced separately and independently? TRUE 
 
When contracting on a ﬁrm-ﬁxed-price basis, what will usually satisfy the requirement to perform a 
price analysis? A comparison of proposed prices 
 
Price to the government shall be evaluated in every source selection? TRUE 
 
When contracting on a cost-reimbursement basis, evaluations shall include a cost realism analysis 
to determine? 
- What the Government should realistically expect to pay for the proposed effort, 
- the offeror's understanding of the work, and 
- the offeror's ability to perform the contract. 
 
True or False? Cost realism analysis may not be used on ﬁxed-price incentive contracts? FALSE 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---
When a contracting professional determines that a price is reasonable, what does that mean?  
• They made a decision based on what a prudent and competent buyer would be willing to 
pay. 
 
Price analysis is used... 
• When certiﬁed cost or pricing data are not required. 
• To verify that the overall price offered is fair and reasonable. 
 
Cost analysis is used...  
• To evaluate the reasonableness of individual cost elements 
• To evaluate data other than certiﬁed cost or pricing data to determine cost reasonableness 
or cost realism 
 
According to FAR 2.101, cost or pricing data... 
• Is factual 
 
A price is based on adequate price competition when... 
• In receipt of offers from two or more responsible offerors 
• In receipt of offers from two or more offerors competing independently 
 
When a contractor submits a Certiﬁcate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, they are certifying that the 
data is... 
• Current 
• Complete 
• Accurate 
 
Which of the following are exceptions to obtaining certiﬁed cost of pricing data? 
•  Adequate price competition 
• Commercial items 
• Prices set by law 

--- PAGE 25 ---
When certiﬁed cost or pricing data are not required, why would you obtain data other than certiﬁed 
cost or pricing data? As necessary to establish a fair and reasonable price. 
 
Before burdening contractors with providing data, where shall the contracting officer ﬁrst obtain 
data to determine a fair and reasonable price? The Government or other secondary sources  
 
When a contracting officer requests data other than certiﬁed cost or pricing data, whose format for 
submitting the data should be used? The Contractor’s 
 
A contractor assumes the greatest cost risk in a which type of contract? Firm Fixed Price Contracts 
 
A contractor assumes the least cost risk in which type of contract? Cost Plus Fixed Fee Contracts 
 
Unbalanced pricing occurs when the overall price appears reasonable but ___________ indicates 
the price of one or more contract line items is signiﬁcantly over or understated. 
Cost or Price Analysis 
 
Before entering into negotiations, the contracting officer must determine a range of cost or price 
they are willing to pay for a given service or product. 
1 These are known as the contracting officer's "pre-negotiation objectives" (PNO).    
PNOs establish what the contracting officer judges they should be paying.  Broad differences 
between government's & contractor's max or minimum indicate possible misunderstandings in 
requirements. 
2 This range of minimum and maximum prices or costs must be fair and reasonable as determined 
by all available information, ...  
It is important to understand that the contracting officer cannot agree to pay unfair or unreasonable 
prices. 
3 The contracting officer should use all available data to establish cost or price fairness and 
reasonableness... 
...such as cost or pricing data, market research, historical or current prices, government estimates, 
along with the contracting officer's judgment. 
 
Discussions take place after the establishment of the competitive range. True 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
The contracting officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest 
number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals. True 
 
Communications may be conducted to enhance Government understanding of proposals; allow 
reasonable interpretation of the proposal; or facilitate the Government’s evaluation process. True 
 
Clariﬁcations allow an offeror the opportunity to clarify certain aspects of their proposal.    True 
 
The pre-negotiation objective assists in the contracting officer’s determination of a fair and 
reasonable price. True 
 
The contracting officer shall establish pre-negotiation objectives before the negotiation of any 
pricing action. True 
 
Requests for Proposals (RFPs) are used to…  Solicit proposals 
 
In the Uniform Contract Format (UCF), information on inspection is found in…  Section E 
 
In the UCF , information regarding a company's size status is found in… Section K 
 
Who is responsible for making the best value decision? SSA 
 
Who serves as the primary business advisor for a source selection?  PCO 
 
Which two evaluation factors shall be evaluated in every source selection? Price or cost and 
quality 
 
An interested party wishing to protest is encouraged to seek resolution within the agency before 
ﬁling a protest with the GAO (FAR 33.102(e)). 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
A protest is a written objection by an interested party 
 
An interested party is an actual or prospective offeror 
 
How many protest venues are there? THREE 
 
To whom shall protests to the agency be addressed? Contracting Officer 
 
If an agency protest is received before award, may the Contracting Officer generally proceed with 
the award?  No 
 
If a Contracting Officer receives an agency protest 8 days after contract award, what must the 
Contracting Officer do? Immediately suspend performance 
 
If a contracting officer denies a contractor's claim in a Contracting Officer's Final Decision, the 
contractor must continue contract performance. True 
 
The contracting officer is a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate 
contracts and make related determinations and ﬁndings. True 
 
What part of the FAR prescribes policies and procedures for assigning and performing contract 
administration and contract audit services? FAR part 42 
 
The contract administration phase begins before award of the contract. False 
 
The contracting officer may delegate additional functions to the CAO beyond those listed in FAR 
42.302 - True 
 
In a post award meeting, the contracting officer will conduct a preliminary meeting of Government 
personnel and will designate or act as the chairperson at the conference.  True 
 

--- PAGE 28 ---
The contract management plan should be kept as simple and precise as possible and should 
include: 
• What must be done 
• When it must take place 
• Who must do it 
• How it is to be accomplished 
• Where it is to be accomplished 
 
The COR plays an important role in the post award phase of the acquisition and is the "eyes and 
ears" of the contracting officer. True 
 
The DD Form 1484A may be used in conducting the conference and in preparing the conference 
report. True 
 
All invoice payments, with the exception of interim payments on cost-reimbursement contracts for 
services, must be supported by a receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing 
payment (e.g., Government certiﬁed voucher). True 
 
The Government will not make invoice payments earlier than 7 days prior to the due dates speciﬁed 
in the contract unless the agency head determines - 
• To make earlier payment on a case-by-case basis. 
• That the use of accelerated payment methods are necessary. 
 
What are some examples of contract ﬁnancing methods? 
• Advanced Payments 
• Progress Payments 
• Performance Based Payments 
 
Contracting officers can only provide property to contractors when it is clearly demonstrated -  
• To be in the Government’s best interest. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
• That the overall beneﬁt to the acquisition signiﬁcantly outweighs the increased cost of 
administration, including ultimate property disposal. 
• That providing the property does not substantially increase the Government’s assumption 
of risk. 
• That Government requirements cannot otherwise be met 
 
Government property shall normally be provided on a rent-free basis in performance of the contract 
under which it is accountable or otherwise authorized. True 
 
Generally, contractors are held liable for loss of Government property. False 
 
The Rate Cycle process all starts when the Contractor submits a Forward Pricing Rate Proposal 
(FPRP) at the beginning of an accounting period.  DCAA and DCMA take that proposal through a 
process that will ultimately lead to a Forward Pricing Rate Agreement (FPRA). True 
 
Billing Rates are used to adjust and close out contracts. False 
 
Billing rates are an indirect cost rate -  
• Established temporarily for interim reimbursement of incurred indirect costs. 
• Adjusted as necessary pending establishment of ﬁnal indirect cost rates. 
 
Final indirect cost rates shall be established on the basis of - 
• Contracting officer determination procedure. 
• Auditor determination procedure. 
 
Who all is involved in performance management?  
• Customer 
• Stakeholders 
• Contractor 
 

--- PAGE 30 ---
A stakeholder is anyone with an interest in the acquisition and its outcome. 
True 
Governance are individuals or organizations that must approve the requirement and acquisition 
strategies and may be in the contracting organization or the requiring organization.  
True 
 
A good understanding of the “as is state” or “baseline” – including current, past, and forecasted 
requirements, processes, performance, and spending – can help the Acquisition Team more 
effectively develop plans and actions that will improve performance of the new requirement and 
implementation strategy. 
True 
 
A communication plan must include:  
• Who the target audience is. 
• What needs to be communicated. 
• What the communications should contain. 
• Who is responsible for generating the communication. 
• What format or forum should be used. 
• What frequency is needed to keep the target audience up to speed. 
 
Government contract quality assurance shall be performed at such times (including any stage of 
manufacture or performance of services) and places (including subcontractors’ plants) as may be 
necessary to determine that the supplies or services conform to contract requirements. True 
 
What are some of the more common types of assessment methods normally included in the 
Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)?  
• Random Sampling 
• Periodic Sampling 
• Trend Analysis 
• Customer Feedback 
• Third Party Audits 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) is used to document contractor 
performance on systems and non-systems contracts including Services, Information Technology, 
Operations Support, Systems, Ship Repair & Overhaul.  True 
 
Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is used to collect 
contractor and grantee performance information including Terminations for Cause or Default, 
Defective Cost and Pricing Data, Determinations of Non-Responsibility, Terminations for Material 
Failure to Comply (grants) and Recipient Not Qualiﬁed Determinations (grants).  True 
 
Contractors shall be afforded up to14 calendar days from the date of notiﬁcation of availability of 
the past performance evaluation to submit comments, rebutting statements, or additional 
information.  
 
Regarding contract quality requirements, what are the four general categories, depending on the 
extent of quality assurance needed by the Government for the acquisition involved?   
• Contracts for Commercial Items 
• Government reliance on inspection by the contractor 
• Standard inspection requirements 
• Higher-level contract quality requirements 
 
When acquiring commercial items (see FAR part 12), the Government shall rely on contractors’ 
existing quality assurance systems as a substitute for Government inspection and testing before 
tender for acceptance unless customary market practices for the commercial item being acquired 
include in-process inspection. True 
Requiring compliance with higher-level quality standards is necessary in solicitations and contracts 
for complex or critical items  or when the technical requirements of the contract require -  
• Control of such things as design, work operations, in-process controls, testing, and 
inspection. 
• Attention to such factors as organization, planning, work instructions, documentation 
control, and advanced metrology. 
 
Who is responsible for developing the quality requirements for supplies and/or services included in 
solicitations and resultant contracts? The activity responsible for technical requirements 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
The contractor is responsible for controlling the quality of supplies and/or services 
 
The contracting officer is responsible for accepting supplies and/or services for the Government. 
 
If the Government accepts a non-commercial deliverable on a ﬁxed price contract and a defect is 
later found which was not discoverable upon the Government's reasonable inspection, who bears 
the cost of correcting the defect? The contractor 
 
If the Government accepts a non-commercial deliverable on a ﬁxed price contract and a defect is 
later found which was discoverable upon the Government's reasonable inspection, who bears the 
cost of correcting the defect? The Government 
 
Except under conditions of fraud, lack of good faith, or willful misconduct on the part of the 
Contractor’s managerial personnel, under which contract type(s) would the Government bear the 
cost of replacement or correction of services (more than one answer may be selected)? 
• Cost-reimbursement 
• Time-and-Material 
• Labor Hour 
 
In each of the inspection clauses (ﬁxed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-material contract 
types), the contractor shall provide and/or maintain which of the following (more than one answer 
may be selected): 
• An inspection system acceptable to the Government 
• Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor 
 
Which quality assurance system does the Government rely on as a substitute for Government 
inspection and testing before accepting commercial items? 
The contractor's quality assurance systems 
 
If the Government accepts a commercial deliverable on a ﬁxed price contract and a defect is later 
found within a reasonable time, who bears the cost of correcting the defect? The contractor 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
It is the Government's policy to award all opportunities in its acquisitions to SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, 
HUBZone small business, SDB, and WOSB concerns. False 
The correct answer is false. It is the Government's policy to provide maximum practicable 
opportunities in its acquisitions to SB, VOSB, SDVOSB, HUBZone small business, SDB, and WOSB 
concerns. 
 
The SBA is authorized to- 
• Review (within 5 working days) any solicitation that meets the subcontracting plan 
threshold before the solicitation is issued. 
• Review (within 5 working days) before execution any negotiated contractual document 
requiring a subcontracting plan and submit recommendations to the contracting officer.  
• Evaluate compliance with subcontracting plans, either on a contract-by-contract basis, or, 
in the case of contractors having multiple contracts, on an aggregate basis. 
 
The SBA is not authorized to prescribe the extent to which any contractor or subcontractor shall 
subcontract. The correct answer is review (within 5 working days) any solicitation that meets the 
subcontracting plan threshold before the solicitation is issued,  review (within 5 working days) 
before execution any negotiated contractual document requiring a subcontracting plan and submit 
recommendations to the contracting officer, and evaluate compliance with subcontracting plans, 
either on a contract-by-contract basis, or, in the case of contractors having multiple contracts, on 
an aggregate basis. 
 
Each solicitation of offers (RFP) or invitation for bids (IFB) shall require the apparently successful 
offeror or the bidder selected for award to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan if... 
• Contract is expected to exceed $750,000 
• The potential contract has subcontracting possibilities 
 
Solicitations Involving Consolidation or Bundling 
IAW FAR 15.304(c)(4), for solicitations, that are not set aside for small business concerns, involving 
consolidation or bundling, that offer a signiﬁcant opportunity for subcontracting, the contracting 
officer shall include proposed small business subcontracting participation in the subcontracting 
plan as an evaluation factor.  
Bundling is a subset of consolidation. True 

--- PAGE 34 ---
Government representatives must recognize the lack of privity of contract between the Government 
and subcontractors. True 
Government representatives must recognize the lack of privity of contract between the Government 
and subcontractors. 
 
If the contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, consent to subcontract is 
required for...  
• Cost-reimbursement contracts 
• Time-and-materials contracts 
• Letter contracts 
 
What is the length of time a SAP contract should be closed within after physical completion & 
payment? Immediately 
 
What is the length of time Contractors must retain contract ﬁles? 3 years 
 
What is the length of time a FFP contract should be closed within after physical completion? 6 
months 
 
What is the length of time contracts requiring settlement of rates should be closed. 36 months 
 
Contracting Officers must complete a DD Form 1597 for contracts:   
To ensure all required contract actions have been satisfactorily accomplished 
 
After administrative closeout actions have been veriﬁed, the contracting officer administering the 
contract must ensure that a DD Form 1594, Contract Completion Statement is prepared. True 
 
Agencies are required to hold contract ﬁles in the office responsible for maintaining them for a 
period of: 12 months 
 
The contract administration office is responsible for initiating administrative closeout of the 
contract after receiving evidence of its physical completion. 

--- PAGE 35 ---
A(n) Automated closeout allows a system to initiate and execute the closeout action. 
 
A quick closeout is when the CO/KO responsible for contract closeout negotiates the closeout 
settlement. 
 
When the total contract value does not exceed $500,000, this... Qualiﬁes for automated closeout 
 
When the total unsettled direct & indirect costs to be allocated to a contract is < $2M, this …  
Qualiﬁes as relatively insigniﬁcant costs 
 
Payment requests and receiving reports are required to be submitted in electronic form, except for:   
• Classiﬁed contracts 
• Electronic payment not feasible 
• Governmentwide commercial purchase card is used as the method of payment 
• Contractor has requested permission in writing and the contracting officer has provided 
instructions for a temporary alternative method of submission