CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
1. Pre-award, award, post-award What are the contract lifecycle phases?
2. Buyer Who are the government or prime contractor considered?
3. Seller What are the contractors and/or subcontractors consid-
ered?
4. Requirement Product or service to be bought
5. Pre-Award - All work performed by buyer and seller in communicat-
ing buyer's requirements and providing solution to those 
requirements.
- Two primary activities: Develop Solicitation and Develop 
Offer
6. Award Phase What phase of the contract life cycle includes all work 
performed by buyer and seller that produces an awarded 
contract, and includes one primary activity: form contract?
7. Post-Award Phase What phase of the contract lifecycle includes all work per-
formed by buyer and seller during contract performance, 
to include changes to contract, contract close-out, and 
sometimes termination of contract? It is sometimes called 
contract administration and consists of two primary activi-
ties: perform contract and close contract?
8. Develop Solicitation This occurs in the pre-award phase, is completed by Gov-
ernment or Contractor, and is focused on obtaining a sub-
contractor.
9. Develop Offer This is completed by Contractor or Subcontractor and oc-
curs in the pre-award phase.
1 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
10. Form Contract This occurs in the award phase.
11. Perform Contract and Close Con-
tract
This occurs in the post-award phase
12. Acquisition Acquiring by contract with appropriated funds, supplies 
or services, including construction, by and for the use of 
Government through purchase/lease.
13. Acquisition Team Members All participants in Government acquisition including repre-
sentatives of the technical, supply, and procurement com-
munities, the customers they serve, and the contractors 
who provide products and services.
14. Contracting Officer Has authority to maximum extent practicable and consis-
tent with law, to determine application of rules, regula-
tions, and policies on a specific contract.
15. - complexity/dollar value of ac-
quisitions to be assigned 
- candidate's experience, train-
ing, education, business acu-
men, judgment, character , and 
reputation.
What types of things are to be considered when appoint-
ing officials are selecting KO's?
16. Clear decision making and effec-
tive communication.
Competency Model pushes DoD contracting leadership to 
focus on:
17. must be minimized Personal bias influences decision making, this _____ in 
professional decision making.
18. - Satisfy customer in terms of 
cost, quality, and timeliness of 
delivered product/service.
Avoid personal bias by grounding decisions in FAR 1.102, 
which states the system will:
2 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Minimize administrative oper-
ating costs.
- Conduct business with integri-
ty, fairness, and openness.
- Fulfill public policy objectives.
19. Personal Conflicts of Interest of 
Contractor Employees
This happens when a contractor employee has interest 
that could impair their ability to act impartially and in 
best interest of the Government when performing under 
contract (FAR subpart 3.11).
20. Organizational and Consultant 
Conflicts of Interest
This happens when a contractor is in a situation, which by 
way of contract performance, gives them an unfair advan-
tage or will bias their performance in making recommen-
dations to Government (FAR subpart 9.5).
21. Effective Communication What skill: 
- Minimizes the effect of personal biases
- Maximizes the likelihood of successful results, and 
- Facilitates communications among affected stakehold-
ers?
22. Importance of Transparency Maintains integrity of procurement process.
23. Determination and Findings Written approval by authorized official, required by statute 
or regulation, as a prerequisite to taking certain contract 
actions.
24. Justification and Approval Prior to negotiating a sole source contract, the contracting 
officer must complete a-
25. Price Negotiation Memorandum At the conclusion of negotiations, the contracting officer 
will complete a-
3 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
26. - Contract actions expected to ex-
ceed $25k must be synopsized in 
Government-wide Point of Entry 
(GPE).
- Contract actions expected to ex-
ceed $15k but not $25k must be 
displayed in a public place.
FAR Part 5 states that contracting officers must disseminate 
information on proposed contract actions as follows:
27. Federal employees are prohibit-
ed from soliciting/accepting gifts 
because: 1) Employee's official 
position, 2) Offered by prohibit-
ed source (company doing busi-
ness or seeking to do business 
with government). 
A gift or gratuity may be any-
thing of monetary value (favors, 
entertainment, loans, etc.)
Solicitation and Acceptance of Gratuities by Government 
Personnel:
28. Strictly avoid any conflict of in-
terest or even the appearance of 
a conflict of interest in Govern-
ment-contractor relationships.
What is the general rule regarding conflicts of interest?
29. Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 This act was passed to deter subcontractors from making 
payments and contractors from accepting payments for 
the purpose of improperly obtaining or rewarding favor-
able treatment in connection with a prime contract or a 
subcontract relating to a prime contract.
30. The Kickback statute prevents any person from:
4 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Providing, attempting to pro-
vide, or offering to provide kick-
back. 
- Soliciting, accepting, or at-
tempting to accept kickback. 
- Including amount of kickback 
in contract price charged by sub-
contractor to prime contractor 
or prime contractor to U.S.
31. Person authorized, in accor-
dance with applicable agency 
regulations or procedures, by 
agency head or KO to receive 
such information.
Who may disclose contractor bid, proposal, or source se-
lection information?
32. - Cost or pricing data 
- Indirect costs and direct labor 
rates 
- Information marked as "con-
tractor bid or proposal informa-
tion."
- Information marked as restrict-
ed by contractor
- Proprietary information about 
manufacturing processes, oper-
ations, or techniques
The term "contractor bid or proposal information" means 
any of the following information submitted to a federal 
agency as part of, or in connection with, a bid or proposal 
to enter into a federal agency procurement contract:
33. Non-disclosure agreement. Any contractor bid or proposal information delivered to 
the Government with restrictions on its use, modification, 
reproduction, release, performance, or display may not 
5 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
be provided to third parties unless the intended recipient 
completes and signs a _____.
34. "Source Selection Informa-
tion-See FAR 2.101 and 3.104."
Individuals responsible for preparing material that may be 
source selection information must mark the cover page 
and each page that the individual believes contains source 
selection information with ____.
35. - Submitted bid prices 
- Submitted proposed costs or 
prices 
- Source selection or technical 
evaluation plans
- Technical evaluations of pro-
posals
- Cost or price evaluations of pro-
posals
- Rankings of bids, proposals, or 
competitors
- Information marked as "Source 
Selection Information-See FAR 
2.101 and FAR 3.104."
- Competitive range determi-
nations that have reasonable 
chance of being selected for 
award
Provide examples of source selection information.
36. 1) Unequal Access 
2) Impaired Objectivity 
3) Biased Ground Rules
3 categories of OCI (organizational conflict of interest):
37. Unequal access
6 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Unfair advantage when a contractor obtains information 
not generally available to competitors where such infor-
mation would assist the contractor in winning award.
38. Impaired objectivity This may happen when a support contractor is performing 
duties that involve assessing/evaluating itself or related 
entity.
39. Biased ground rules This most often occurs when the contractor is writing 
SOWs, performing systems engineering, or providing 
technical direction efforts.
40. Potential OCI Contractor is placed in a position where its objectivity 
might be called into question, but no information has 
come to light indicating an actual motive for bias exists.
41. Actual OCI When information has come to light that would cause a 
reasonable person to question the contractor's objectivity.
42. 1) Avoid 
2) Neutralize 
3) Mitigate
What are the 3 approaches for dealing with OCI issues?
43. - If an OCI exists, it may be 
best to cancel the RFP and make 
needed changes to eliminate 
conflict.
- If one does not exist, parties 
need to be told that in the KO's 
view, an OCI does not exist.
- Yes, if KO determines that doing 
so is in best interest of U.S. as 
Can you award to a contractor if an OCI exists?
7 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
well as submitting a waiver re-
quest that is approved by Head 
of Contracting Activity.
44. Disclosure What is it called when an employee provides evidence of 
contractor or subcontractor misconduct?
45. A KO who receives a complaint 
of reprisal shall forward it to le-
gal counsel or appropriate party 
IAW agency procedures.
KO action regarding disclosure:
46. Federal Procurement Data Sys-
tem (FPDS)
What platform maintains publicly available information 
about all unclassified contract actions exceeding the mi-
cro-purchase threshold, and any modifications to those 
actions regardless of dollar value?
47. The Vision of the Federal Acquisi-
tion System
Deliver on a timely basis, the best value product or ser-
vice to customers, while maintaining the public's trust 
and fulfilling public policy objectives. Participants in the 
acquisition process should work together as a team and 
should be empowered to make decisions within area of 
responsibility.
48. Life-cycle costs Total cost to Government for acquiring, operating, sup-
porting, and if applicable, disposing of items being ac-
quired (FAR 7.101).
49. After initial procurement When do the majority of life-cycle costs occur?
50. Market Research - Continuous process for gathering information about 
products and services available in the marketplace.
8 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Determines if industry can support acquisition "needs" of 
Government.
51. On an ongoing basis and appro-
priate to the circumstances
When should market research be conducted?
52. Contracting Officer Representa-
tive (COR)
- Individual designated and authorized in writing by the KO 
to perform specific technical or administrative functions. 
- Does not have authority to enter, change, or terminate a 
contract.
53. - Achieve clear and mutual un-
derstanding of contract require-
ments
- Identify and resolve potential 
problems
Post-Award Orientation aids both Government and con-
tractor personnel to:
54. Actual and apparent What are the two types of authority?
55. Express Actual Authority: creat-
ed by explicit language, either 
in writing or verbal. The spoken 
word is generally as binding as 
the written word; however , more 
difficult to prove.
- Implied Actual Authority: au-
thority to do what is usual, cus-
tomary and necessary to accom-
plish the action. Differs from ex-
What are the two types of actual authority? Explain them.
9 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
press actual authority in that no 
express agreement is executed.
56. Apparent Authority When someone reasonably believes an individual has au-
thority to act on behalf of Government, based on their con-
duct, even though that individual has no actual authority to 
bind Government.
57. Delegation of Authority This term explains that each authority is delegable unless 
specifically stated otherwise (FAR 1.108(b)).
58. Contract Mutually binding legal relationship obligating seller to 
furnish supplies or services, including construction, and 
buyer to pay for them.
59. 1. Capacity
2. Mutual assent
3. Consideration
4. Lawful purpose
4 essential elements of a contract:
60. Capacity Legal competence of a person to enter a valid contract. To 
be legally bound to a contract, a party must have this to 
understand and appreciate the terms of the contract.
61. Legal Incapacity and Legal In-
competence
Legal doctrines employed to protect parties who lack abil-
ity to understand terms of an agreement.
62. Mutual Assent "Meeting of the Minds" 
Parties involved in a contract must come to an agreement 
about details of the transaction and each party either 
makes a promise, begins, or renders performance.
63. Consideration
10 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Something of value that a promisor (offeror) receives 
from a promisee (offeree) in return for his or her offer.
- Primary reason a party would seek to enter a contract. 
- Can take many forms, such as money, a promise, action 
or non-action, or property. 
- Without this, a contract is not enforceable.
64. Lawful Purpose A contract is unenforceable if any term of the agreement is 
contrary to public policy, against the law, or if the enforce-
ment of any term of the agreement would harm the state 
or its citizens.
65. Public Policy Governmental policies regarding public morals, health, 
safety, and welfare that affect the whole population.
66. Product characteristics, capabil-
ities of suppliers, and the busi-
ness practices that surround 
them.
Market research includes determining:
67. For all Government contract re-
quirements exceeding the SAT 
and for certain requirements 
below the SAT when adequate 
information is not available, 
and the circumstances justify its 
costs.
When is market research required?
68. Strategic, Tactical, or both. Market research can be ____, ____, or ____.
69. Strategic Market
11 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Conducted continuously throughout the acquisition 
process.
- Broad view of market developments, trends, and capabil-
ities.
70. Tactical Market - Conducted at specific points during the acquisition 
process.
- Answers specific questions about capabilities, products, 
or services available in the market.
71. Competition in Contracting Act 
of 1984 (CICA)
Legal Act that requires KO's to arrange for full and open 
competition.
72. Full and Open Competition With certain exceptions, KO's shall promote and provide 
for this in soliciting offers and awarding contracts.
73. Full and Open Competition After 
Exclusion of Sources
What is it called when agencies exclude a particular source 
from a contract action in order to establish/maintain an 
alternative source?
74. 1. Only one responsible source 
and no other supplies or services 
will satisfy agency requirements
2. Unusual and compelling ur-
gency
3. Industrial mobilization; engi-
neering, developmental, or re-
search capability; or expert ser-
vices
4. International Agreement 
5. Authorized or required by 
What are the seven statutory authorities that permit con-
tracting without providing for full and open competition 
(Other Than Full and Open Competition):
12 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
statute
6. National Security 
7. Public Interest
75. Responsible sources at fair and 
reasonable prices (FAR 15.402).
Contracting officers shall purchase supplies and services 
from:
76. Acceptance Acknowledgment that supplies or services meet contract 
quality/quantity requirements.
77. Place of Acceptance Contracts that provide for Government contract quality as-
surance AT SOURCE, shall usually provide for acceptance 
AT SOURCE. 
Contracts that provide for Government contract quality as-
surance AT DESTINATION, shall usually provide for accep-
tance AT DESTINATION.
78. Destination Supplies accepted at a place other than _____________ 
shall not be re-inspected at destination for acceptance 
purposes, but should be examined at destination for 
quantity, damage in transit, and possible substitution or 
fraud.
79. Title Transfer and Risk of Loss Unless contract says otherwise, loss or damage to sup-
plies shall remain with contractor and pass to Government 
when:
1) Supplies are delivered to carrier 
2) Supplies are delivered to Government at destination
3) Government accepts
80. upon formal acceptance by the 
government (FAR 46.505(a))
Title transfer happens.....
13 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
81. Excusable Delay Contractor shall not be in default because of failure to per-
form contract if failure arises from causes beyond control 
and without fault or negligence of Contractor. (Unusually 
severe weather, fires, floods etc.)
82. Default Failure to make progress in work, so as to endanger per-
formance.
83. (1) Delineate rights and oblig-
ations of contractor and Gov-
ernment for defective items/ser-
vices. 
(2) Foster quality performance.
Principal purposes of a warranty in a government contract:
84. - Nature of item, components, & 
characteristics. 
- Remedies available to Govern-
ment. 
- Scope and duration of warran-
ty.
- Extent of warranty, including 
contractor obligations to Gov-
ernment for breach of warranty.
To facilitate pricing and enforcement of warranties, the KO 
shall ensure that warranties clearly state:
85. Implied and Express 2 types of warranties:
86. Bilateral Modification Contract modification that is signed by both - contractor 
and KO.
87. Unilateral Modification Contract modification that is signed by KO only.
88. Deviation Use of a procedure that is inconsistent with the FAR
14 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
89. 1) Promote full and open compe-
tition
2) Minimize restrictive provi-
sions
3) State requirements in terms 
of function, performance, and 
physical characteristics
Government's policy on describing agency needs is to:
90. Needs Assessment Identifies and characterizes gaps in existing capabilities 
that are impediments to achieving mission area objectives.
91. - Establishes high level objec-
tives
- Develops performance tasks 
and standards
- Creates PWS and QASP
Why is a requirements analysis important?
92. 1) Planning Phase: Form acqui-
sition team and get leadership 
support for actions that must 
happen to ensure mission is sup-
ported.
2) Development Phase: Uses 
requirements roadmap process 
to define high level objectives, 
tasks, standards, allowable vari-
ations, and method(s) of inspec-
tion. After completion, you will 
then be in best position to devel-
op PWS, and QASP .
3) Execution Phase: Create and 
The Service Acquisition Process is composed of three 
phases:
15 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
execute solicitation document 
that communicates to industry 
your requirements and strategy.
93. As soon as agency need is iden-
tified
When should acquisition planning begin?
94. - Who needs the output?
- Why is the output needed?
- What's done with it?
- What occurs as a result?
- Is it worth the effort and cost?
- Would a different output be 
preferable?
The Acquisition Team should verify the continued need for 
the identified output by asking questions, such as:
95. 1) Government's best interest 
2) Overall benefit outweighs in-
creased administration costs, in-
cluding property disposal
3) Does not substantially in-
crease Government's assump-
tion of risk
4) Government requirements 
cannot be met otherwise
In accordance with FAR 45.102(b), KO's shall provide prop-
erty to contractors only when:
96. Obtain written assurance from 
the responsible fiscal authority 
that adequate funds are avail-
able.
No officer or employee of the Government may create or 
authorize an obligation in excess of funds available, or in 
advance of appropriations, unless otherwise authorized by 
law. Before executing any contract, the KO shall:
16 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
97. FAR 10.001: Agencies must con-
duct market research "appropri-
ate to the circumstances" -
- Before developing new require-
ments. 
- Before soliciting offers above 
the SAT, or below the SAT, if ad-
equate information is not avail-
able and cost is justified. 
- Before soliciting offers that 
could lead to a bundled contract. 
- On an on-going basis to iden-
tify capabilities for meeting re-
quirements and for the de-
fense against nuclear , biological, 
chemical, or radiological attack
What is the Government's policy regarding Market Re-
search?
98. Best-value products and services 
that solve mission-critical prob-
lems.
Market research is an essential process enabling the gov-
ernment to buy _____.
99. - Technical, Logistics, and Testing 
Specialists 
- User
- Cost Analyst 
- KO
- Legal Counsel
On small, low-dollar acquisitions, only one person may be 
involved in market research. Typically, on larger teams, the 
following personnel will be involved in the market research 
process:
100. Why is there a preference for commerciality?
17 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Commercial items tend to have 
competitive pricing, which often 
benefits Government.
- Receive items quicker
101. 1. "Sources Sought" solicitation
2. Request for Information (RFI) 
distribution
3. Pre-Solicitation Conference or 
Industry Day
4. One-on-one interactions
5. Solicitation of feedback on 
Draft RFP
What are some effective methods of industry engage-
ment?
102. FAR part 13, 14, & 15. Far part 12 
is used in conjunction with parts 
13, 14, & 15.
When we refer to contracting methods, typically we are 
referring to the FAR part that governs policies and proce-
dures for that particular method. What are those FAR parts?
103. FAR Part 12 Contracts for the acquisition of commercial items are sub-
ject to the policies in other parts of the FAR. However, when 
a policy in another part of the FAR is inconsistent with a 
policy in FAR Part 12, _____ shall take precedence for the 
acquisition of commercial items.
104. - At or below micro-purchase 
threshold
- Directly from another Federal 
agency
- Using SF 44 
- Using imprest fund 
- Using Government-wide com-
mercial purchase card as a 
FAR Part 12 does not apply to the acquisition of commercial 
items that are:
18 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
method of purchase rather than 
only as a method of payment.
105. - Firm-Fixed-Price Contracts 
- Fixed-Price Contracts with Eco-
nomic Price Adjustment
Agencies shall use _____ contracts for the acquisition of 
commercial items
106. - Reduce administrative costs.
- Promote efficiency and econo-
my in contracting.
- Avoid unnecessary burdens for 
agencies and contractors.
- Assist small businesses in ob-
taining Government contracts.
The use of simplified acquisition procedures allows us to:
107. - Government-wide commercial 
purchase card
- Purchase orders
- Blanket purchase agreements
- Imprest funds
- Third-party drafts
FAR subpart 13.3 informs us that simplified acquisition 
methods include:
108. - Supplier accepts order in writ-
ing
- Requested supplies are fur-
nished 
- Proceeding with work to the 
point that substantial perfor-
mance has occurred.
FAR 13.004 states that a quotation is not an offer, and 
consequently, cannot be accepted by the government to 
form a binding contract. A contract comes into being when:
109. :- Firm-Fixed-Price Contracts
- Fixed-Price Contracts with Eco-
nomic Price Adjustment
Sealed Bidding (FAR Part 14) can only be used with what 
2 types of contracts?
19 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
110. - There is enough time to solici-
tate, submit, and evaluate bids.
- There is expectation of receiv-
ing more than one sealed bid.
- Discussions with offerors about 
bids is not needed.
- Award will be made based on 
price or other price-related fac-
tors.
KOs shall solicit sealed bids if:
111. Two Step Sealed Bidding This method of contracting is explained as a combination 
of competitive procedures designed to obtain the bene-
fits of sealed bidding when adequate specifications are 
not available. Step one consists of requests for submis-
sion, evaluation, and discussion of technicaly proposals. 
No pricing is involved. Step two consists of submission of 
sealed bids by those who submitted acceptable technical 
proposals in step one.
112. Sealed Bidding This method of contracting is explained as a combination 
of competitive procedures designed to obtain the bene-
fits of sealed bidding when adequate specifications are 
not available. Step one consists of requests for submis-
sion, evaluation, and discussion of technicaly proposals. 
No pricing is involved. Step two consists of submission of 
sealed bids by those who submitted acceptable technical 
proposals in step one.
113. Negotiated Contract - Contract awarded using other than sealed bidding pro-
cedures. 
- Must be used when 1(+) pre-requisites to sealed bidding 
is lacking 
20 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
1. sufficient time
2. award based on price or price-related factors
3. well-defined specifications
4. adequate competition
114. Commercial Product - Product, other than real property, that is used by the 
general public or non-governmental entities for other than 
governmental purposes. 
- Product that has been sold, leased, or licensed to general 
public.
- Product that has been offered for sale, lease, or license 
to general public.
115. Contract Type Policy - Contracts resulting from sealed bidding shall be 
firm-fixed-price or fixed-price contracts with economic 
price adjustment.
- Cost plus percentage of cost is prohibited
- Contracts negotiated under FAR Part 15 may be of any 
type or combination that will promote Government's in-
terest.
- Contract CANNOT be awarded before the execution of 
determination and findings (FAR part 16)
116. - Result in a balance of risk be-
tween Government and Contrac-
tor .
- Provide contractor with great-
The chosen contract type and negotiated pricing should:
21 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
est incentive for efficient/eco-
nomical performance.
117. 1) Adjustments based on estab-
lished prices
2) Adjustments based on actual 
costs of labor or material
3) Adjustments based on cost in-
dices of labor or material
3 general types of adjustments (FPEPA):
118. Negative Incentives Motivate contractors to avoid reduced profitability when 
outcomes fall short of the Department's desired levels.
119. Completion and Term Two forms of (Cost Plus Fixed Fee) CPFF Contracts:
120. Issuing Solicitations - KO's shall issue solicitations to potential sources IAW 
policies and procedures.
- Master solicitation's may be used for negotiated acqui-
sitions.
- Prior to release of solicitation, SSA shall approve source 
selection strategy or acquisition plan, if applicable.
121. Amending Solicitations When, either before or after receipt of proposals, Govern-
ment changes requirements or terms and conditions, the 
KO shall amend the solicitation.
122. At a minimum, the following in-
formation should be included in 
each solicitation amendment:
- Name and address of issuing activity
- Solicitation number and date
- Amendment number and date
- Number of pages
- Description of change being made
- Government point of contact and phone number 
- Revision to solicitation closing date, if applicable
22 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
123. Sealed Bidding (FAR part 14), 
Contracting by Negotiation (FAR 
part 15), source selection for 
Architect-Engineering Contracts 
(FAR subpart 36.6), and in some 
cases, selection of basic and ap-
plied research providers.
What does FAR Part 6 Competition Requirements, apply to?
124. Encouraged Prior to receipt of proposals, one-on-one meeting with 
potential offerors are _____.
125. Better understand Government 
requirements and industry capa-
bilities.
The purpose of exchanging information with industry be-
fore receipt of proposals is to:
126. - Industry or small business con-
ferences
- Public Hearings
- Market Research
- One-on-one meetings with po-
tential offerors
- Pre-Solicitation Notices
- Draft Requests for Proposals 
(RFP)
- Request For Information (RFI's)
- Pre-Solicitation or Pre-Proposal 
conferences
- Site visits
Some techniques to promote early exchanges of informa-
tion are:
127. Solicitation Request to submit offers or quotations to the government
128. Invitation for bids Solicitations under sealed bid procedures are called:
23 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
129. Requests for proposals Solicitations under negotiated procedures are called:
130. Quotation or offer Solicitations under simplified acquisition procedures may 
require submission of:
131. Solicitation Provision can be 
found where and when?
- Found in solicitation 
- Applies before award
132. Clause A term or condition used in contracts or in both contracts 
and solicitations, and applying after contract award or both 
before and after award.
133. Provision A term or condition used only in solicitations and applying 
only before contract award.
134. Solicitation Provision Would a solicitation provision or a contract clause tell a 
potential offeror how it's proposal will be evaluated and 
considered for selection for award?
135. - Continue to improve quality of 
contracting processes.
- Facilitate cross-sharing of best 
practices and lessons learned 
throughout DoD.
- Ensure that KOs are implement-
ing policies and regulations in a 
consistent and appropriate man-
ner .
The objectives are peer reviews are:
136. - Increase competition.
- Increase industry participation 
in meeting Government require-
ments.
Contracting officers must publicize contract actions in or-
der to:
24 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Assist small business concerns 
in obtaining contracts and sub-
contracts.
137. Focal point of any exchange with 
potential offerors.
After release of the solicitation, the contracting officer must 
be the _____.
138. - Allowing the maximum amount 
of time practicable for offerors to 
submit their offers
- Making available/furnishing all 
pertinent documents
- Providing a means to have 
questions answered.
KOs must encourage maximum response to solicitations 
by small business. This can be accomplished by:
139. - Before time of bid opening
- To everyone that invitations 
were furnished
- Must be displayed in bid room.
Once an invitation for bids has been issued, if it becomes 
necessary to make changes, amendments must be sent:
140. 1. Must consider the period of 
time remaining until bid open-
ing, and the need to extend that 
period.
2. Must consider that informa-
tion given to a prospective bid-
der must be furnished to oth-
er prospective bidders as an 
amendment to the invitation (if 
needed or if lack of info would 
What must a KO consider before amending an Invitation 
for Bid (IFB)?
25 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
be detrimental to uniformed bid-
ders).
141. - Amendments issued before es-
tablished time and date for re-
ceipt of proposals, must be is-
sued to all parties receiving the 
solicitation.
- Amendments issued after es-
tablished time and date for re-
ceipt of proposals, must be is-
sued to all offerors that have not 
been eliminated from competi-
tion.
When amending a Request for Proposal, amendments 
issued before the established time and date for reciept of 
RFPs must? Amendments issued after the established time 
and date for receipt of RFPS must?
142. Amend the solicitation When, either before or after receipt of proposals, the Gov-
ernment changes its requirements or terms and condi-
tions, the KO must do what?
143. KO should cancel original solici-
tation and issue a new one, re-
gardless of the stage of the ac-
quisition.
If a change is so substantial as to exceed what prospective 
offerors reasonably could have anticipated so that addi-
tional sources likely would have submitted offers had the 
substance of the amendment been known to them:
144. Government-wide Point of Entry 
(GPE)
Obtains Government business opportunities greater than 
$25,000, including synopses of proposed contract actions, 
solicitations, and associated information, that can be ac-
cessed electronically by the public.
145. - Acquisition is expected to ex-
ceed SAT.
- Paper solicitation or contract is 
When should KO use SF 1449?
26 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
being issued
- Procedures at FAR 12.603 are 
not being used.
146. Buying-In What is it called when a contractor submits an offer below 
anticipated costs, expecting to:
- Increase contract amount after award (through unneces-
sary or excessively priced change orders)?
- Receive follow-on contracts at artificially high prices to 
recover losses incurred on the buy-in contract?
147. Contractor Team Arrangement What is it called when two or more companies form a 
partnership or joint venture to act as a potential prime 
contractor, or a potential prime contractor agrees with 
one or more other companies to have them act as its 
subcontractors under a specified Government contract or 
acquisition program?
148. - Complement each other's 
unique capabilities
- Offer the Government the best 
combination of performance, 
cost, and delivery of system or 
product being acquired
Why might the Government be agreeable to contractor 
team arrangements?
149. A fixed-price contract with eco-
nomic price adjustment
What type of contract is applicable when market or labor 
conditions are volatile, and/or contingencies that would 
otherwise be included in the contract price can be identi-
fied and covered separately in the contract?
27 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
150. Billing, claim, or proposal Costs that are expressly unallowable or mutually agreed 
to be unallowable shall be identified and excluded from 
any ________, _________, or __________ applicable to 
a Government contract.
151. Price Cost plus any fee or profit applicable to the contract type.
152. Pricing Process of establishing reasonable amount(s) to be paid 
for supplies or services.
153. True True or False? Each contract should be priced separately 
and independently.
154. - Two or more responsible of-
ferors, competing independent-
ly, submit offers that satisfy Gov-
ernment requirements
- Award will be made to offeror 
whose proposal represents the 
best value
- No finding that the price of 
the otherwise successful offeror 
is unreasonable.
According to FAR 15.403-1(c)(1)(i), a price is based on 
adequate price competition when:
155. Comparison of proposed prices. When contracting on a firm-fixed-price basis, what will 
usually satisfy the requirement to perform a price analysis?
156. True True or False? Price to the Government shall be evaluated 
in every source selection.
157. - What Government should real-
istically expect to pay
28 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Offeror's understanding of 
work
- Offeror's ability to perform con-
tract.
In accordance with (FAR 15.305(a)(1)), when contracting 
on a cost-reimbursement basis, evaluations shall include 
a cost realism analysis to determine:
158. Proposal Analysis Basics - Ensures final agreed-to price is fair and reasonable
- KO is responsible for determining fairness and reason-
ableness of offered prices
159. Reasonable Prices Price that a prudent and competent buyer would be willing 
to pay.
160. Price Analysis Examines and evaluates a proposed price without evaluat-
ing its separate cost elements and proposed profit.
161. - Comparison of proposed prices 
received
- Comparison of proposed prices 
to historical prices paid
Preferred techniques of Price Analysis:
162. Fixed Price, Cost Reimburse-
ment, Time and Materials
Price analysis may be completed on _____, _____, _____ 
contract types.
163. Cost Analysis This process evaluates separate cost elements and reason-
ableness of individual cost elements, and determines them 
fair and reasonable.
164. - Expressly unallowable
- Mutually agreed to be unallow-
able
- Designated as unallowable as a 
written result by KO
Cost are unallowable if they are:
165. Direct Costs
29 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Cost that can be identified specifically with a particular final 
cost objective (Equipment, Raw Materials, Labor Costs).
166. Indirect Costs Cost identified with two or more final cost objectives, inter-
mediate cost objectives, or contracts.
167. 1) Employee benefits (health in-
surance, leave)
2) Overhead (costs involved with 
running the company)
3) G&A (Management salaries 
when management overlooks 
multiple projects, salaries of 
workers that are shared be-
tween projects, office space)
Indirect costs typically fall into three categories:
168. Weighted Guidelines Method The DoD's structured approach to profit analysis is called 
the _____.
169. 1) Performance Risk
2) Contract Type Risk
3) Facilities Capital Employed
4) Cost Efficiency
The weighted guidelines method focuses on four profit 
factors:
170. Cost Analysis; Price Analysis Whenever certified cost or pricing data is required, _____ 
shall be performed to determine reasonableness of cost 
elements. _____ should also be performed to determine 
a fair and reasonable overall price is being offered.
171. Data other than certified cost or 
pricing data
You may also need to review or evaluate _____ if the other 
two analyses types are insufficient for the KO to make a 
determination on the offered price/cost.
30 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
172. Cost realism analysis The process of independently reviewing and evaluating 
elements to determine whether the estimated proposed 
cost elements are realistic for work to be performed, reflect 
clear understanding of the requirement, and consistent 
with offeror's technical proposal
173. Defective Pricing _____ could result, if the contractor knew that cost or 
pricing data submitted by the offeror were not accurate, 
complete, and current.
174. Cost or pricing data All facts that, as of the date of price agreement, or, if ap-
plicable, an earlier date agreed upon between the parties 
that is as close as practicable to the date of agreement on 
price, prudent buyers and sellers would reasonably expect 
to affect price negotiations significantly.
175. - Adequate price competition
- Prices set by law or regulation
- Commercial items
- Waivers
- Modifying a contract for a com-
mercial item
Exceptions to obtaining certified cost or pricing data:
176. Current, Complete, Accurate When a contractor submits a Certificate of Current Cost or 
Pricing Data, they are certifying that the data is:
177. - Shall obtain certified cost 
or pricing data when required, 
along with data other than certi-
fied cost or pricing data as nec-
essary to establish a fair and rea-
sonable price
Recall that, in accordance with FAR 15.402, when establish-
ing the reasonableness of offered prices, the contracting 
officer:
31 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- When certified cost or pric-
ing data are not required, shall 
obtain data other than certified 
cost or pricing data as necessary 
to establish a fair and reason-
able price.
178. Data Other Than Certified Cost 
or Pricing Data
Pricing data, cost data, and judgmental information nec-
essary for KO to determine a fair and reasonable price or 
cost realism.
179. Unbalanced Pricing Overall price appears reasonable but cost/price analysis 
indicates the price of one or more contract line items is 
significantly over or understated.
180. - Start-up costs appear high
- Base year priced significant-
ly higher & options significantly 
lower
- IDIQ contract items: high-order 
items priced higher while low-or-
der items priced much lower
Indications of possible unbalanced pricing are:
181. Contract Cost Risk Degree of cost responsibility and associated risk a con-
tractor will assume as a result of the contract type and the 
reliability of the cost estimate in relation to the complexity 
and duration of the contract task.
182. Firm Fixed Price Contracts A contractor assumes the greatest cost risk in a which type 
of contract?
32 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
183. Cost Plus Fixed Fee Contracts A contractor assumes the least cost risk in which type of 
contract?
184. Price Negotiation Memorandum 
(PNM)
One of the most common methods for documenting the 
negotiation is by using the:
185. Clarifications
Communications
Discussions
What are the three types of different exchanges with offer-
ors?
186. Clarify If award will be made without conducting discussions, 
offerors may be given the opportunity to _____ certain 
aspects of proposals.
187. Clarifications Limited exchanges between Government and offerors that 
may occur when award will be made without discussions 
is being contemplated.
188. Evaluation Notices (EN) Clarifications shall be documented on and conducted via 
transmittal of _____ to the applicable offeror. This shall 
clearly indicate the type of exchange being conducted.
189. Communications Exchanges between Government and offerors, after re-
ceipt of proposals, that lead to the establishment of the 
competitive range.
190. Competitive Range This is determined by the most highly rated proposals.
191. Discussions - Exchanges (i.e., negotiations) in a competitive environ-
ment that are undertaken with the intent of allowing the 
offeror to revise its proposal. 
- Take place after establishment of the competitive range.
33 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
192. Pre-negotiation objectives _____ establish the Government's initial negotiation posi-
tion. This must be established before any negotiation of 
any pricing action can take place.
193. Trade-off Process Appropriate when it may be in the best interest of the Gov-
ernment to consider awarding to, other than, the lowest 
priced offeror or highest technically rated offeror.
194. Lowest Price Technically Accept-
able (LPTA)
Appropriate when best value is expected to result from 
selection of the technically acceptable proposal with the 
lowest evaluated price.
195. Value Adjusted Total Evaluated 
Price (VATEP)
Provides offeror information to determine if additional cost 
of offering better performance would put offeror in better 
position for source selection.
196. Requests for Proposals Used in negotiated acquisitions to communicate Govern-
ment requirements to prospective contractors and to solicit 
proposals.
197. Source Select Authority (SSA) This person is part of the Source Selection Team. They 
select a contractor for contract award based on evaluation 
criteria and factors in the solicitation and make the best 
value decision. In acquisitions valued at $100 million or 
more, the Agency head shall appoint, in writing, an indi-
vidual other than the KO to hold this position.
198. Source Selection Advisory Coun-
cil (SSAC)
- Provides written comparative analysis of offers and rec-
ommendations
- Reviews evaluation and findings of SSEB to ensure accu-
racy, consistency, and supportability
199. Primary business advisor for source selection
34 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Procurement Contracting Officer 
(PCO)
200. Source Selection Evaluation 
Board (SSEB)
Prepares documentation of final evaluation results. This 
must be established for acquisitions of $100 million or 
more.
201. Legal Counsel - Reviews documentation for legal sufficiency
- Provides legal advice throughout source selection 
process.
202. Steps In the Proposal Evaluation 
Process 
1) Initial Evaluation
2) Determine whether or not to 
award without discussions
3) If not awarding without 
discussions, make competitive 
range determination and notify 
all offerors not included in com-
petitive range
4) Conduct discussions with of-
ferors in competitive range
5) Request final proposal revi-
sions (FPRs) from offerors in 
competitive range.
6) Evaluate FPRs.
7) Brief SSA on FPR evaluations.
8) SSA makes source selection 
decision.
9) PCO awards contract.
10) PCO notifies offerors who 
What are the steps in the proposal evaluation process?
35 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
were in the competitive range 
but not selected for award
203. Shall acknowledge receipt. Regarding Solicitation Amendments, offerors __________ 
of any amendment to the solicitation by the date and time 
specified in the amendment(s).
204. Proposal Evaluation Assessment of proposal and offeror's ability to perform 
prospective contract successfully.
205. Proposal Revisions KO may request or allow for these to clarify and document 
understandings reached during negotiations.
206. 1) Promote competition
2) Ensure price is fair and reason-
able, and complies with statuto-
ry requirements for certified cost 
or pricing data
It is DoD policy, if only one offer is received in response to 
a competitive solicitation:
207. 1) Price or Cost
2) Quality
Which two evaluation factors shall be evaluated in every 
source selection?
208. Pre-Award Notices This type of notice shall be provided by the KO in writing to 
notify offerors when their proposals have been excluded 
from competitive range, stating the basis for determina-
tion and that a proposal revision will not be considered.
209. Post-Award Notices Within 3 days AFTER date of contract award, KO shall pro-
vide written notification to each offeror whose proposal 
was in the competitive range, but not selected for award.
210. Pre-Award Debriefing of Offer-
ors
- Offerors excluded from competitive range BEFORE 
award, may request a one of these BEFORE award, by 
36 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
submitting a written request to KO within 3 days AFTER 
receipt of notice of exclusion from competition.
- At the offeror's request, this may be delayed until after 
award. If delayed until after award, it shall include all 
information normally provided in a post-award debriefing.
211. Post-Award Debriefings of Offer-
ors
- An offeror, upon its written request received by the 
agency within 3 days after the date that offeror received 
notification of contract award, shall be provided this and 
furnished the basis for the selection decision and contract 
award.
- To the maximum extent practicable, this should occur 
within 5 days after receipt of the written request.
212. Protest Written objection by an interested party
213. Interested Party Actual or prospective offeror whose direct economic inter-
est would be affected by the award of a contract or by the 
failure to award a contract.
214. Protest Venue Protests filed with the agency, Government Accountability 
Office (GAO), or U.S. Court of Federal Claims
215. Day Calendar day, unless specified otherwise.
216. Filed Complete receipt of document by agency before COB.
217. Contracting Officer To whom shall protests to the agency be addressed?
218. No, not until the agency has 
reached a resolution. May only 
be awarded if award is justified, 
If an agency protest is received BEFORE award, may the 
Contracting Officer generally proceed with the award?
37 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
in writing, for urgent and com-
pelling reasons or is determined, 
in writing, to be in the best inter-
est of the govt.
219. Claim Written demand or assertion by one of the contracting 
parties seeking, as a matter of right:
 1) Payment of money in a sum certain
2) Adjustment or interpretation of contract terms
3) Other relief arising under or relating to the contract.
220. Accrual of a Claim Date when an event that caused an alleged liability oc-
curred, was known, or should have been known.
221. Alternative Disputes Resolution 
(ADR)
Procedure or combination of procedures voluntarily used 
to resolve issues in controversy.
222. Issue in Controversy Material disagreement between Government and contrac-
tor that may result in a claim, or all or part of an existing 
claim.
223. Misrepresentation of Fact - False statement of fact or conduct which leads to the 
belief of fact
- Made with intent to deceive or mislead
224. KO level According to FAR 33.204, it is the Government's policy to 
try to resolve all contractual issues in controversy by mutual 
agreement at the _____.
225. $100,000.00 For claims exceeding _____, the contractor must certify the 
claim.
226. KO who is administering contracts
38 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Administrative Contracting Offi-
cer (ACO)
227. Termination Contracting Officer 
(TCO)
KO who is settling terminated contracts
228. At a broad level, the purpose is 
to ensure that the buyer receives 
contracted supplies and services 
on time and at level of quality re-
quired by the contract, and that 
the seller receives payment.
Primary purpose of the contract administration:
229. Quality Assurance Surveillance 
Plans (QASP)
- Prepared in conjunction with PWS or SOO for service con-
tracts to document how Government will perform quality 
assurance to ensure services conform to contract require-
ments. 
- Outlines all work that requires surveillance and method 
of surveillance.
230. Planning for contract adminis-
tration begins in the pre-award 
phase, actual contract adminis-
tration begins after a contract is 
awarded
When should contract administration begin?
231. - Appropriate level of surveil-
lance or monitoring of contrac-
tor performance.
- Timely and proper perfor-
Formal Contract Administrative Plan should provide for:
39 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
mance of the government's re-
sponsibilities.
232. All items discussed, including ar-
eas requiring resolution, contro-
versial matters, the names of the 
participants assigned responsi-
bility for further actions, and the 
due dates for the actions.
What items should a post-award conference report cover?
233. - What must be done
- When it must take place
- Who must do it
- How it is to be accomplished
- Where it is to be accomplished
The contract management plan should be kept as simple 
and precise as possible and should include:
234. The later of the following two 
events:
1) 30th day AFTER designated 
billing office receives a proper in-
voice from contractor
2) 30th day AFTER Government 
accepts supplies delivered or 
services performed
A proper invoice must include 
the items found in FAR 32.905(b).
Payment will be based on receipt of a proper invoice and 
satisfactory contract performance. The due date for mak-
ing an invoice payment is as follows:
235. Advance Payments Advances of money by Government to prime contractor 
before, in anticipation of, and for the purpose of complete 
performance under one or more contracts
40 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
236. Progress Payments Made on the basis of costs incurred by the contractor as 
work progresses under the contract.
237. Loan Guarantees Made by Federal Reserve Banks on behalf of designated 
agencies, to enable contractors to obtain financing from 
private sources under contracts for the acquisition of sup-
plies or services.
238. Partial Delivery Payments Payments for accepted supplies and services that are only 
part of the contract requirements
239. Progress Payments Based on a 
Percentage or Stage of Comple-
tion
Type of progress payment that may:
- Used as payment method under agency procedures. 
- Agency procedures must ensure that payments are com-
mensurate with work accomplished. 
- May not exceed 80% of eligible costs of work accom-
plished on undefinitized contract actions.
240. Performance-Based Payments Contract financing payments made on the basis of: 
- performance measured by objective, quantifiable meth-
ods
- accomplishment of defined events; or
- other quantifiable measures of results.
241. - Document receipt of property
- Create and maintain property 
record
- Mark property as Government 
owned
- Manage shipping discrepan-
cies
For receipt of GFP, the contractor shall:
41 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Report receipt of all GFP as re-
quired
242. - Cost-reimbursement con-
tracts.
- Time-and-material contracts.
- Labor-hour contracts.
- Fixed-price contracts awarded 
on the basis of submission of 
certified cost or pricing data.
Generally, contractors are not held liable for loss of Gov-
ernment property under the following types of contracts 
(FAR 45.104):
243. - To make earlier payment on a 
case-by-case basis.
- That the use of accelerated pay-
ment methods are necessary.
The Government will not make invoice payments earlier 
than 7 days prior to the due dates specified in the contract 
unless the agency head determines:
244. False (T/F) Generally, contractors are held liable for loss of Gov-
ernment property.
245. Billing Rate Temporary rate contractors use to bill the Government until 
a final rate is established.
246. Forward Pricing Rate Agree-
ments
Used to estimate and negotiate contracts and EACs.
247. Final Indirect Cost Rates shall be 
established on the basis of what?
KO and Auditor determination procedures
248. Stakeholder Anyone with an interest in the acquisition and its outcome
249. Governance - Individuals or organizations that must approve the re-
quirement and acquisition strategies 
- May be in the contracting organization or requiring or-
ganization.
42 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
250. Internal Stakeholders Within organization, either as customers for the prod-
uct/service being procured or leaders of activities the ef-
fort will be supporting.
251. External Stakeholders - Not directly tied to organization
- Could be local communities, industries, or anyone who 
might be affected or have financial interests in the Acqui-
sition Team's actions.
252. Stakeholder Interviews - Based on a good understanding of the "as is state"
- Assists Acquisition Team in developing plans or actions 
that will improve performance of new requirements/im-
plementation strategies.
253. - Random or Periodic sampling
- Trend analysis
- Customer feedback
- Third-Party audits
Common types of assessment methods in regard to cap-
turing contractor performance:
254. Contractor Performance Assess-
ment Reporting System (CPARS)
Primary system DoD uses for tracking contractor perfor-
mance.
255. Federal Awardee Performance 
and Integrity Information Sys-
tem (FAPIIS)
Name the system that contains information that supports 
award decisions and was established to track contractor 
misconduct and performance.
256. Within 3 years of completion 
of performance of the evaluat-
ed contract or order , & infor-
mation found in FAPIIS. (6 for 
construction and architect-engi-
neering contracts)
For how long may agencies use the past performance 
information in PPIRS?
43 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
257. 14 Contractors shall be afforded up to ____________calen-
dar days from the date of notification of availability of the 
past performance evaluation to submit comments, rebut-
ting statements, or additional information.
258. - Contracts for Commercial Prod-
ucts and Services
- Government reliance on inspec-
tion by contractor
- Standard inspection require-
ments
- Higher-level contract quality re-
quirements
Types of Contract Quality Requirements:
259. - Require contractor to provide 
and maintain an inspection sys-
tem that is acceptable to the 
Government.
- Give Government the right to 
make inspections and tests while 
work is in process. 
- Require contractor to keep 
complete, and make available to 
the Government, records of its 
inspection work.
What are the 3 Standard Inspection requirements?
260. - Control of such things 
as design, work operations, 
in-process controls, testing, and 
inspection.
Higher-Level Contract Quality requirements are typical-
ly required in solicitations and contracts for complex or 
critical items, OR when the technical requirements of the 
contract require what 2 things?
44 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Attention to such factors as 
organization, planning, work in-
structions, documentation con-
trol, and advanced metrology
261. KO Who is responsible for accepting supplies and/or services 
for the Government?
262. Contractor Unless the Government has a need to test the supplies or 
services in advance, the _____ is required to accomplish 
all inspection and testing to ensure supplies or services 
acquired at or below the simplified acquisition threshold 
(SAT) before they are tendered to the Government.
263. 1. Is acceptable to Government.
2. Gives Government right to in-
spect. 
3. Test work in process and keep 
and make available to Govern-
ment records of its inspections.
Standard Inspection Requirements (Over the SAT), these 
clauses require the contractor to maintain an inspection 
system that:
264. Latent Defect Defect that exists at time of acceptance but cannot be 
discovered by a reasonable inspection.
265. Patent Defect Defect that exists at time of acceptance and is not a latent 
defect.
266. Contractor If the Government accepts a non commercial deliverable 
on a fixed price contract and a defect is later found which 
was not discoverable upon the Government's reasonable 
inspection, who bears the cost of correcting the defect?
45 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
267. Government If the Government accepts a non commercial deliverable 
on a fixed price contract and a defect is later found which 
was discoverable upon the Government's reasonable in-
spection, who bears the cost of correcting the defect?
268. Contractor's quality assurance 
systems
Which quality assurance system does the Government rely 
on as a substitute for Government inspection and testing 
before accepting commercial items?
269. Bilateral Modification/Agree-
ment
- Contract modification signed by contractor and KO. 
- Used to make negotiated equitable adjustments, defini-
tize letter contracts, and modify terms and conditions.
270. Unilateral Modification/Agree-
ment
- Contract modification signed by KO only. 
- Used to make administrative changes, issue change or-
ders and termination notices, and make changes autho-
rized by clauses other than a changes clause.
271. KO to make unilateral changes, 
in designated areas, within the 
general scope of the contract.
Generally, Government contracts contain a changes clause 
that permits the _____.
272. Change Order Ordered change to a contract
273. 1) Modification issuing a change 
order 
2) Modification issuing a supple-
mental agreement between par-
ties
Typically, the change order process results in two modifi-
cations:
274. Changes may only be made by 
written agreement of both par-
Modification of COMMERCIAL CONTRACTS are subject to 
FAR 52.212-4 which states _____.
46 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
ties. This makes all changes to 
commercial contracts bilateral in 
type.
275. SF 30, Amendment of Solicita-
tion/Modification of Contract
Change orders are accomplished by issuing written 
change orders on _____.
276. - Payment of interest on contrac-
tor claims 
- Certification of contractor 
claims 
- Civil penalty for contractor 
claims that are fraudulent or a 
misrepresentation of fact
The Disputes Statute provides for what 3 things:
277. 6 years Contractor claims shall be submitted in writing to the KO, 
and must be presented for a decision within _____ after 
accrual of a claim, unless the contracting parties agreed to 
a shorter time period.
278. 1) KO receives claim 
2) Payment would be due, if that 
date is later , until date of pay-
ment.
The Government shall pay interest on a contractor's claim 
on the amount found due and unpaid from the date that:
279. - Review facts pertinent to claim
- Secure assistance from legal 
and other advisors
- Coordinate with CAO or con-
When a claim by or against a contractor cannot be satisfied 
or settled by mutual agreement and a decision on the 
claim is necessary, the contracting officer shall:
47 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
tracting office as appropriate
- Prepare a written decision
280. - That contract is being terminat-
ed for convenience of Govern-
ment under contract clause au-
thorizing termination.
- Effective date of termination
- Extent of termination 
- Special instructions 
- Steps contractor should take to 
minimize impact on personnel
Notices of termination state what 5 things?
281. - It's known that contractor will 
accept one
- No Government property was 
furnished
- No outstanding payments, 
debts due to Government, or 
other contractor obligations
KO shall effect a no-cost settlement instead of issuing a 
termination notice when:
282. When a termination settlement 
has been negotiated and all re-
quired reviews have been ob-
tained, the contractor and TCO 
shall execute a settlement agree-
ment on SF 30.
When are Settlement Agreements used?
283. 15 days
48 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Before issuing a settlement determination, the TCO shall 
give the contractor at least _____ notice by certified mail 
(return receipt requested) to submit written evidence sub-
stantiating the amount previously proposed.
284. Subcontract Agreement entered into by a government prime contractor 
or subcontractor, calling for supplies and/or services re-
quired for performance of contract, contract modification, 
or subcontract.
285. - Contract is expected to exceed 
$750,000
- The potential contract has sub-
contracting possibilities
Each RFP or IFB shall require the apparently successful 
offeror or bidder selected for award, to submit an accept-
able subcontracting plan if:
286. Consolidation Solicitation for a single contract or order to satisfy 2+ 
requirements for supplies or services that have been pro-
vided to, or performed under, 2+ separate contracts.
287. Bundling - Occurs when 2+ requirements for supplies or ser-
vices, previously provided to or performed under separate 
smaller contracts, are consolidated into a solicitation for a 
single contract or order
- Likely to be unsuitable for award to a small business 
concern.
288. Consent to Subcontract KO's written consent for the prime contractor to enter into 
a particular subcontract.
289. Contractor has completed all 
required deliveries and/or per-
formed all services, and the 
A contract is considered physically complete when:
49 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Government has accepted the 
items/services.
290. All required contract actions 
have been satisfactorily accom-
plished
Contracting Officers must complete a DD Form 1597 for 
contracts to ensure that:
291. - Is firm-fixed priced
- Does not exceed a total contract 
value of $500,000
- Does not contain a certain pro-
vision requiring administrative 
action at closeout
A contract qualifies for the automated closeout process if 
the contract:
292. Quick-Closeout KO responsible for contract closeout, negotiates closeout 
settlement.
293. Automated Closeout Allows a system to initiate and execute the closeout action.
294. Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) With limited exceptions, _____ is the only acceptable elec-
tronic form for submission of payment requests and re-
ceiving reports by contractors to the Government.
295. Vouchers and invoices Payment requests have two forms:
296. Vouchers Used to request reimbursement of costs related to cost, or 
labor hour contract types.
297. Invoices Used to request fixed payments related to fixed priced 
contracts.
298. - Technical (quality of product or 
service)
- Cost control
CPARS Evaluation Factors (6):
50 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
- Schedule/timeliness.
- Management or business rela-
tions.
- Small business subcontracting
- Other (trafficking violations, tax 
delinquencieterm-367s etc.)
299. Electronic Data Access System 
(EDA)
DoD's primary tool for electronic distribution of contract 
documents and contract data:
300. Actual & Final Overhead Rate Used to adjust payments and close contracts.
301. SAT - $250,000.00 A Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System 
(CPARS) is required for a contract exceeding:
302. The execution of determination 
and findings.
A contract CANNOT be awarded before what?
303. Simplified Acquisition Proce-
dues, Sealed Bidding, Contract-
ing by Negotiation
What are the three contracting methods?
304. Determination & Findings If a Time & Materials contract type is being considered, 
what is required to justify that no other contract type is 
authorized by FAR Part 12 is suitable?
305. Ensure that each has been met With respect to the requirements of law, executive orders, 
regulations, and all other applicable procedures, prior to 
signing a contract, a contracting officer must:
306. Contract clause Would a solicitation provision or contract clause require a 
contractor to deliver an item by a specific date?
307.
51 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Governmentwide Point of Entry 
(GPE)
For proposed contract actions expected to exceed $25k, 
the KO must synopsize in the ________.
308. Post in a public space For proposed contract actions expected to exceed 
$15k, but not expected to exceed $25k, the KO must 
_________________?
309. Divide acquisitions into reason-
ably small lots to permit offers 
on quantities less than the total 
requirement.
What action shall the KO take to encourage small business 
participation in acquisitions?
310. 1) functions to be performed
2) performance required
3) essential physical characteris-
tics
To the maximum extent practicable, acquisition officials 
shall state requirements of supplies or services in terms of 
what 3 characteristics?
311. 1) product literature
2) product samples (if request-
ed)
3) technical features
4) warranty provisions
When using FAR Part 12 procedures, the technical evalua-
tion would normally include what 4 things?
312. Price Cost plus any profit or fee.
313. Pricing The process of establishing a reasonable amount or 
amounts to be paid for supplies or services.
314. fixed-price incentive contracts 
or on other competitive 
fixed-price-type contracts
When justified, cost realism analyses may also be used on 
what kind of contracts?
315. Cost analysis This process is used to evaluate the reasonableness of 
individual cost elements when certified cost or pricing data 
52 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
are required. Also used to evaluate data other than certi-
fied cost or pricing data to determine cost reasonableness 
or cost realism when a fair and reasonable price cannot be 
determined through price analysis alone.
316. Price analysis The process of examining and evaluating a proposed price 
without evaluating its separate cost elements and pro-
posed profit. This process is used when certified cost or 
pricing data are not required, and to verify that the overall 
price offered is fair and reasonable.
317. Fixed-price, cost-reimburse-
ment, and time and materials 
contract types
On what contract types can price analysis be completed?
318. - reasonable
- allocable
- determined to be allowable
A cost is allowable only when the cost is:
319. The KO shall immediately sus-
pend performance, pending res-
olution of the protest within the 
agency- UNLESS continued per-
formance is justified, in writing, 
for urgent and compelling rea-
sons or is determined, in writing, 
to be in the best interest of the 
Government.
What shall the KO do upon receipt of a protest within 10 
days after contract award or within 5 days after a debrief-
ing date offered to the protester under a timely debriefing 
request IAW FAR15.505 and 15.506?
320. Accountable Property Officer 
(APO)
This individual is responsible for establishing and main-
taining an organization's formal property records, systems 
and supporting financial records that effectively control 
and manage Government property. This individual also 
53 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
possess the responsibility for ensuring all transactions 
involving Government property accurately reflect the life 
cycle activities and can be audited in their entirety.
321. Program Manager (PM) This individual holds a critical position in the acquisition 
process and arguably has the most important role. This 
person, as part of the responsibility for acquisition plan-
ning, is the decision point as to whether or not to furnish 
property to contractors. This person also ensures: 
- Establishment of accurate accountability of Government 
property with a full reconciliation to the financial records;
- A baseline physical count for all Government property 
being furnished to a contractor; and
- Development of a disposal plan to include demilitariza-
tion, subsystems, or components with sufficient lead time 
before the disposal or retirement of the first asset.
322. Contracting Officer This person has the authority to: 
- Increase or decrease the amount of Government-fur-
nished property under the contract
- Substitute other Government-furnished property for the 
property previously furnished, to be furnished, or to be 
acquired by the Contractor for the Government under the 
contract
- Withdraw authority to use property
323. Property Administrator (PA) This person serves as the liason between the contractor 
and the Government, and as the authorized representative 
of the CO, they play a crucial role in the management of 
government furnished property. This person helps ensure 
54 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
the contractor is appropriately managing property and 
administers the contract terms and conditions relating to 
the Government property. 
Responsibilities include:
- Evaluating contractor property management proce-
dures;
- Performing risk assessments;
- Analyzing the contractor's property management sys-
tem;
- Ensuring that the contractor promptly reports excess 
Government property; and
- Investigating instances of Government property loss.
324. Plant Clearance Officer (PCO) This person is an authorized representative of the CO re-
sponsible for screening, redistributing, and disposing of 
contractor inventory.
325. - Contracts for Commercial Prod-
ucts and Commercial Services
- Government reliance on inspec-
tion by contractor
- Standard inspection require-
ments
- Higher-level contract quality re-
quirements
What are the four general categories that contract quality 
requirements fall into?
326. The contractor
55 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
Who is responsible for controlling the quality of supplies 
and/or services?
327. SF 26 What document is used to award negotiated contracts 
when signatures of both parties is appropriate?
328. DD 1861 What document is used to estimate facilities capital cost of 
money and capital employed, and is used in conjunction 
with CASB-CMF and cost of money factors?
329. SF 30 What document is used to amend solicitations or modify 
contracts?
330. SF 33 What document is used to award negotiated contracts or 
contracts utilizing sealed bidding?
331. SF 44 What document is used for simplified acquisitions at or 
below micro-purchase threshold, except for purchases un-
der unusual and compelling urgency or in support of 
contingency operations?
332. SF 1409 What document is prescribed for use in recording bids?
333. SF 1442 What document is used for soliciting offers and award-
ing contracts expected to exceed SAT, and must be for: 
construction, alteration, repair, dismantling, demolition, or 
removal of improvements?
334. SF 1449 What document is required for solicitation of commercial 
items if acquisition will exceed SAT and is encouraged for 
commercial acquisitions not exceeding SAT?
335. DD 254 What document provides security classification guidance 
to U.S. contractors, and subcontractors as applicable, re-
56 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
quiring access to information classified as "Confidential", 
"Secret", or "Top Secret"?
336. DD 1155 What document is used for placing orders under indefi-
nite-delivery contracts or if the SF 1449 is not used under 
simplified acquisition procedures?
337. DD 1547 What document facilitates a structured approach to prof-
it/fee analysis?
338. DD 1594 What document is the Contract Completion Statement?
339. DD 1597 What document is the Contract Closeout Checklist?
340. DD Form 1484A Used to conduct conferences and prepare conference re-
ports.
341. Procurement Instrument Identi-
fier
What does PIID stand for?
342. PIID Unique number identifying each solicitation, contract, 
agreement, or order and related procurement instrument.
343. 13-17 alpha and/or numeric 
characters
What combination of characters make up the PIID?
344. Department or agency issuing 
the instrument.
Positions 1-6 of the PIID signify what? N0006217C001
345. Last 2 digits of the FY that the 
procurement instrument was is-
sued.
Positions 7-8 of the PIID signify what? N0006217C001
346. Instrument type Position 9 of the PIID signifies what? N0006217C001
57 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
347. Agency assigned number . Must 
be a minimum of 4 characters, 
but can be up to 8 characters 
long.
Positions 10-17 of the PIID signify what? N0006217C001
348. Supplementary PIID Identifies amendments to solicitations and modifications 
to contracts, agreements, and orders. P00001
349. - Construction and architect-en-
gineer contracts
- Subsistence contracts
- Letter requests for proposals
- Contracts exempted by agency 
head or designee
- Supplies/service contracts re-
quiring special contract formats
Exceptions in which the UCF does not have to be used 
when preparing solicitations:
350. Uniform Contract Format (UCF) Standardized structure used to facilitate preparation of 
solicitations and contracts.
351. 4 How many parts make up the UCF?
352. Part I - The Schedule
Part II - Contract Clauses
Part III - List of Documents, Ex-
hibits, and Other Attachments
Part IV - Representations and In-
structions
What are the UCF parts?
353. The Schedule What is Part I of the UCF?
354. Contract Clauses What is Part II of the UCF?
355. What is Part III of the UCF?
58 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
List of Documents, Exhibits, and 
Other Attachments
356. Representations and Instruc-
tions
What is Part IV of the UCF?
357. A - Solicitation and Contract 
Form
B - Supplies or Services and 
Prices or Costs
C - Description, Specifications, 
and SOW's
D - Packaging and Marking
E - Inspection and Acceptance
F - Deliveries or Performance
G - Contract Administration 
Data
H - Special Contract Require-
ments
Name the different parts of Part I - The Schedule of the 
UCF.
358. I - Contract Clauses What is the name and corresponding letter that makeup 
Part II - Contract Clauses of the Uniform Contract Format?
359. J - List of Attachments What is the name and corresponding letter that make up 
Part III - Lists of Documents, Exhibits, and Other Attach-
ments of the Uniform Contract Format?
360. K - Representations, certifica-
tions, and other statements of of-
ferors or respondents
L - Instructions, conditions, and 
notices to offerors or respon-
What are the different parts and their corresponding let-
ters to Part IV - Representations and Instructions of the 
Uniform Contract Format?
59 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
dents
M - Evaluation factors for award
361. Solicitation/Contract Form Section A of UCF
362. Supplies or services and 
prices/costs
Section B of UCF
363. Descriptions/Specifica-
tions/SOW
Section C of UCF
364. Packaging and Marking Section D of UCF
365. Inspection and Acceptance Sections E of UCF
366. Deliveries or Performance Section F of UCF
367. Contract Administration Data Section G of UCF
368. Special Contract Requirements Section H of UCF
369. Contract Clauses Section I of UCF
370. List of Attachments Section J of UCF
371. Representations, Certifications, 
and other Statement of Offers or 
Respondents
Section K of UCF
372. Instructions, Conditions, and 
Notices to Offeror or Respon-
dents
Section L of UCF
373. Evaluation Factors for Award Section M of UCF
60 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
374. - Firm-Fixed-Price Contracts
- Fixed-Price Contracts with Eco-
nomic Price Adjustment
Agencies shall use what types of contracts for the acquisi-
tion of commercial items?
375. 1) Fixed-Price Incentive Con-
tracts
2) Cost Reimbursement Incen-
tive Contracts
What are the two basic categories of incentive contracts?
376. Fixed-Price Incentive (Firm Tar-
get) Contracts (FPI(F))
This type of contract specifies target cost, target profit, 
profit adjustment formula, and price ceiling. This type of 
contract is appropriate when the parties can negotiate 
at the outset a firm target cost, target profit, and profit 
adjustment formula that will provide a fair and reasonable 
incentive and a ceiling that provides for the contractor to 
assume an appropriate share of the risk.
377. - Firm-Fixed-Price Contracts
- Fixed-Price Contracts with Eco-
nomic Price Adjustment
Sealed bidding (FAR Part 14) can only be used with what 
2 types of contracts?
378. Sealed Bidding Method of contracting that employs competitive bids, 
public opening of bids, and awards. Award is made to the 
responsible bidder whose bid is responsive to the terms of 
invitation for bids and is mose advantageous to the govt, 
considering only price and price related factors included 
in the invitation.
379. Negotiated Contract This type of contract is awarded using other than sealed 
bidding procedures. Must be used when 1(+) pre-requi-
sites to sealed bidding is lacking:
1. sufficient time 
2. award based on price or price-related factors 
61 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
3. well-defined specifications 
4. adequate competition
380. Fixed Price and Cost Reimburse-
ment
What are the two broad contract type categories?
381. Firm-Fixed-Price Contract (FFP) In this type of contract, price is not subject to change. Also, 
the contractor is at maximum risk and responsibility for 
costs and resulting profit or loss.
382. Cost Reimbursement Contract This type of contract provides for payment of allowable 
incurred costs, to the extent prescribed in the contract. 
These contracts establish an estimate of total cost for the 
purpose of obligating funds and establishing a ceiling 
that the contractor may not exceed (except at its own risk) 
without the approval of the contracting officer.
383. Cost Plus Fixed Fee Contract 
(CPFF)
This type of contract provides for payment to the contractor 
of a negotiated fee that is fixed at the inception of the 
contract. The fixed fee does not vary with actual cost, but 
may be adjusted as a result of changes in the work to be 
performed under the contract. This contract type permits 
contracting for efforts that might otherwise present too 
great a risk to contractors, but it provides the contractor 
only a minimum incentive to control costs. This type of 
contract is used in research and advanced or exploratory 
development when the level of effort required is unknown.
384. Fixed-Price with Economic Price 
Adjustment Contracts (FPEPA)
This type of contract allows for the revision of contract price 
upon the occurrence of contingencies. It also addresses 
contingencies that may be out of the contractor's ability 
to control (Ex. Fluctuating commody prices, such as steek, 
petroleum, and specialty metals).
62 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
385. Firm-Fixed-Price Level-of-Effort 
Term Contracts
This type of contract includes an agreement for a specified 
level of effort over a period of time. After completion, the 
Govt pays the contractor a fixed amount based on the level 
of effort rather than the results.
386. Incentive Contract These types of contracts are appropriate when a 
firm-fixed-price contract is not appropriate and the re-
quired supplies or services can be acquired at lower costs 
and, in certain instances, with improved delivery or tech-
nical performance, by relating the amount of profit or 
fee payable under the contract to the contractor's per-
formance. They designed to obtain specific acquisition 
objectives by-
(1) Establishing reasonable and attainable targets that are 
clearly communicated to the contractor; and
(2) Including appropriate incentive arrangements de-
signed to-
(i) motivate contractor efforts that might not otherwise be 
emphasized; and
(ii) discourage contractor inefficiency and waste.
387. Fixed-Price Incentive Contracts This type of incentive contract is preferred when contract 
costs and performance requirements are reasonably cer-
tain. It provides for adjusting profit and establishing the 
final contract price by application of a formula based on 
the relationship of total final negotiated cost to total target 
cost. The final price is subject to a price ceiling, negotiated 
at the outset.
388. Cost-Plus-Incentive-Fee Con-
tracts
This type of contract allows for the initially negotiated fee to 
be later adjusted, by formula, based on the relationship of 
63 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
allowable costs to target costs. This type of contract is ap-
propriate for services or development and test programs.
389. 1) Fixed-Price Award Fee
2) Cost Plus Award Fee
What are the two types of incentive contracts that incen-
tivize subjective elements, like how well the contractor per-
formed?
390. Fixed-Price Award Fee Contracts This type of contract is used when the Government wishes 
to motivate a contractor and other incentives cannot be 
used because contractor performance cannot be mea-
sured objectively. Such contracts shall establish a fixed 
price (including normal profit) for the effort. This price will 
be paid for satisfactory contract performance.
391. Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contracts This type of contract consists of: 
- a fixed base fee at inception of contract (base % shall not 
exceed 3%)
- an award amount that contractor may earn in whole, 
or in part, during performance. Amount should provide 
motivation for excellence in the areas of cost, schedule, 
and technical performance.
392. Cost Contracts In these types of contracts, the contractor receives no 
fee. They're usually used for research and development, 
and/or when the contractor operates or maintains a Govt 
provided facility.
393. Cost-Sharing Contracts In these types of contracts, the contractor receives no fee. 
The contractor agrees to absorb a portion of costs with an 
expectation of substantially compensating benefits.
394. Completion and Term What are the two forms of Cost Plus Fixed Fee contracts?
64 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
395. CPFF Completion Contract This type of contract requires the contrator to work to 
a definite target and specifies an end product. The end 
product must be delivered to earn the entire fixed fee.
396. CPFF Term Contract This type of contract obligates the contractor to a specified 
level of effort for a period of time. If the effort is satisfactory 
to the Government, the fixed fee is paid.
397. Time and Material/Labor Hour 
Contracts
This type of contract is only used when it's not possible at 
the time of placing the contract to accurately estimate the 
extent of duration of work, or anticipated costs.
398. Cost-Reimbursement Contract This contract type of prohibited for the acquisition of com-
mercial products and commercial services.
399. Award-fee contracts These types of incentive contracts are suitable for use when 
the work to be performed is such that it is neither feasible 
nor effective to devise predetermined objective incentive 
targets applicable to cost, schedule, and technical perfor-
mance. The likelihood of meeting acquisition objectives 
will be enhanced by using a contract that effectively moti-
vates the contractor toward exceptional performance and 
provides the Government with the flexibility to evaluate 
both actual performance and the conditions under which 
it was achieved.
400. FAR Part 1 Federal Acquisition Regulations System
401. FAR Part 2 Definitions of Words and Terms
402. FAR Part 3 Improper Business Practices and Personal Conflicts of In-
terest
403. FAR Part 4 Administrative and Information Matters
65 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
404. FAR Part 5 Publicizing Contract Actions
405. FAR Part 6 Competition Requirements
406. FAR Part 7 Acquisition Planning
407. FAR Part 8 Required Sources of Supplies and Services
408. FAR Part 9 Contractor Qualifications
409. FAR Part 10 Market Research
410. FAR Part 12 Acquisition of Commercial Products and Commercial Ser-
vices
411. FAR Part 13 Simplified Acquisition Procedures
412. FAR Part 15 Contracting by Negotiation
413. FAR Part 16 Types of Contracts
414. FAR Part 19 Small Business Programs
415. FAR Part 31 Contract Cost Principles and Procedures
416. FAR Part 33 Protests, Disputes, and Appeals
417. FAR Part 42 Contract Administration and Audit Services
418. FAR Part 44 Subcontracting Policies and Procedures
419. FAR Part 46 Quality Assurance
420. FAR Part 49 Termination of Contracts
66 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
421. How many parts of the FAR are 
there?
53
422. Termination for Convenience Government's right to completely or partially terminate 
performance of work when it's in the government's best 
interest.
423. Termination for Default Government's right to completely or partially terminate 
contract because of contractor's actual or anticipated fail-
ure to perform contractual obligations.
424. 1) Termination for Convenience 
of Government
2) Termination for Default (Non-
commercial)
3) Terminations for Commercial 
Contracts
- a) Termination for Conve-
nience
- b) Termination for Cause
What are the contract termination types?
425. It is similar to Termination for 
Default, but applies only to com-
mercial contract formats using 
FAR Part 12.
When is Termination for Cause appropriate?
426. Delinquency notice Must be sent by the KO to the contractor if it appers 
the contractor has breached the contract and the Govt is 
considering a termination action.
427. Cure notice. 
**These are basically used by 
This is used when the contractor fails to make progress 
and performance is endangered, performance problems 
do not involve terms for delivery, or there are at least 10 
67 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
the government demanding the 
Contractor to tell how they in-
tend on "curing" the situation.
days remaining for contract performance and correction 
of the problem can be reasonably expected in the time 
remaining.
428. Show cause This is used either after the cure notice fails to correct the 
delinquency or when there is insufficient time remaining 
in the schedule - less than 10 days. The point of this is 
to determine the circumstance of the situation that may 
be beyond the control of the contractor. It informs the 
contractor of any liabilities in the event of the termination 
and asks the contractor to provide evidence as to why they 
should not be terminated for default.
429. 12 months Agencies are required to hold contract files in the office 
responsible for maintaining them for how long?
430. 3 years What is the length of time Contractors must retain contract 
files?
431. Immediately What is the length of time a Simplified Acquisition Pro-
cedures contract should be closed within, after physical 
completion & payment?
432. 14 Contractors shall be afforded up to ____________ calen-
dar days from the date of notification of availability of the 
past performance evaluation to submit comments, rebut-
ting statements, or additional information.(CPARS)
433. Within 3 years of completion 
of performance of the evaluat-
ed contract or order , & infor-
mation found in FAPIIS. (6 for 
For how long may agencies use the past performance 
information in PPIRS(CPARS)?
68 / 69

CON 3990
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_frrww6
construction and architect-engi-
neering contracts)
434. The later of the following two 
events:
1) 30th day AFTER designated 
billing office receives a proper in-
voice from contractor
2) 30th day AFTER Government 
accepts supplies delivered or 
services performedA proper in-
voice must include the items 
found in FAR 32.905(b).
Payment will be based on receipt of a proper invoice and 
satisfactory contract performance. The due date for mak-
ing an invoice payment is as follows:
435. - To make earlier payment on a 
case-by-case basis. 
- That the use of accelerated pay-
ment methods are necessary.
The Government will not make invoice payments earlier 
than 7 days prior to the due dates specified in the contract 
unless the agency head determines:
436. 36 months What is the length of time contracts requiring settlement 
of rates should be closed?
437. 6 months What is the length of time a Firm Fixed Price (FFP) contract 
should be closed within, after physical completion?
69 / 69