CON 3900V: 
CON Certification Exam Prep Course
Session #2
Contract Pre-Award

Session 2 Topics
Certification exam will consist of:
• Plan Solicitation – 12 questions
• Request Offers – 12 questions
• Plan Sales – 3 questions
• Prepare Offer – 3 questions
2

Contract Process
3
BUSINESS PLANNING . . . MARKETING
“PLAN SALES”
Market 
Research
Selection Award
PROPOSAL PREPARATION
“PREPARE OFFER”
NEGOTIATIONS
Clarifications/Communications/Discussions 
Contract Administration Phase
Kick off Contract/System
Compliance
Performance 
Monitoring
Contract
Modifications
Completion,
Final Payment,
Closeout
. . . SUBCONTRACTING . . . DELIVERY & COMPLIANCE . . . CHANGES, . . .. . . INVOICING . . . SCHEDULING MONITORING 
ACCEPTANCE CLAIMS & DISPUTES CLOSEOUT & COLLECTION
Acq 
Planning RFPCompetition
Requirements Evaluation/
Negotiation
Note: shaded represents CONTRACTOR’s activities during each Phase – Covered in CON 1210
Pre-Award Phase Award Phase
Requirements
Determination

Contract Pre-Award – CON 1200
4
BUSINESS PLANNING. . . MARKETING
ALIGNING RESOURCES
Market 
Research
CAPTURE MANAGEMENT. . . PROPOSAL 
PREPARATION
Acq 
Planning SolicitationCompetition
Requirements
Pre-Award Phase
Requirements
Determination
Note: shaded area represents INDUSTRY activities during the Pre-Award phase.
These Learning Objectives are Covered in CON 1210

Plan Solicitation
12 Questions
5

Shaping the Requirement Match Game
1. When does acquisition planning begin? RFO part 7
2. What is the Gov’t policy on describing 
agency needs? (select 3): RFO part 11
3. Before executing any contract, what 
must the KO do? (select 2): RFO part32
4. KOs should only provide property to 
contractors when in the Govt’s best 
interest. What must the KO determine? 
(select 3): RFO part 45
A. Promote full and open competition
B. Obtain written assurance from responsible fiscal 
authority that adequate funds are available, or…
C. Minimize restrictive provisions
D. As soon as the agency need is identified
E. Expressly condition the contract upon availability of funds
F. Overall benefit outweighs the cost of 
administration
G. Does not substantially increase the Govt’s 
assumption of risk
H. State requirements in terms of function, 
performance, and essential physical characteristics I. Govt’s requirements cannot otherwise be met
6

Encouraging Small Business – RFO subpart 19.1
True…or False? TYPE your answer in the chat
F 1. Automatically set-aside all requirements to small businesses.
T 2. Divide acquisitions of supplies and services into reasonably small lots to 
permit offers on less than the total requirement.
T 3. Plan acquisitions so that more than one small business may perform the work, 
if the work exceeds the amount a surety may be guaranteed.
F 4. Allow more time to perform for small businesses. 
T 5. Realistically establish delivery schedules to encourage small business participation 
to the extent consistent with the actual requirements.
F 6. Make the quality levels more stringent for large businesses than for small 
businesses.
T 7. Encourage prime contractors to subcontract with small businesses.
7

Market Research (MR)
True…or False? TYPE your answer in the chat
T 1. MR means collecting and analyzing information about capabilities within the 
market to satisfy agency needs. RFO 2.101
F 2. Conduct the same level of MR for all requirements. RFO part 10
F 3. MR is only performed before we develop new requirements. RFO part 10
T 4. MR is a continuous process.
F 5. The 2 types of MR are simple and complex. 
T 6. The 2 types of MR are strategic and tactical. SD-5, Market Research
F 7. MR is addressed in FAR part 11. RFO 11.000
T 8. The FAR describes a preference for commercial items over non-commercial 
items. RFO part 10 and RFO part 11 (and 7…)
8

Engaging Industry – What methods have you used?
Group Interviews 
Buyers Wanted Synopsis
Requests for Information
Industry Days Sources Sought Synopsis
One-on-one Meetings
Draft RFPs
9
Request for Information
Industry Days
Sources Sought Synopsis
One-on-On Meetings
Draft RFPs
See RFO 15.101
& FC part 10

Contract Types
Sorting and Organizing Activity
Used for 
Commercial 
Item or 
Sealed Bid 
Contracts:
Examples of 
Incentive 
Contracts:
Contract 
Type that 
Shall NOT 
be used:
Cost Plus Percentage of Cost
Fixed Price w/ 
Economic Price Adjustment
Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF)
Firm Fixed Price
Cost Plus Award Fee
10
RFO 12.104
RFO 14.1(a)
RFO 16.201, 
RFO 16.203
RFO 16.101(b)
RFO Subpart 16.4
Fixed Price Incentive (Firm Target)

Preparing Solicitations RFO 4.201
Procurement Instrument Identifier (PIID)
N00062 17 C 0001
Type of Instrument
Issuing Organization
Serial Number
Product Service Code
Federal Entity Code (DODAAC)
Basic Code Account Number Calendar Year Funding Type
11
NOOO62
17
C
Fiscal Year
0001

Preparing Solicitations
The Uniform Contract Format (Part 1)
Sections: Part I – The Schedule
Section A
Section B
Section C
Section D
Section E
Section F
Section G
Section H
Solicitation/contract form
Special contract requirements
Supplies or services and prices/costs
Packaging and marking
Contract administration data
Description/specifications/statement of work
Deliveries or performance
Inspection and acceptance
12
RFO 14.202
RFO 15.109

Preparing Solicitations
The Uniform Contract Format (Parts II - IV)
Section: Part II – Contract Clauses
Section I
Section: Part III – List of Documents, Exhibits, and Other Attachments
Section J List of attachments
Section: Part IV – Representations and Instructions
Section K Representations, certifications, and other statements of offerors or 
respondents
Section L
Section M
Contract Clauses
Evaluation factors for award
Instructions, conditions, and notices 
to offerors or respondents
13
RFO 14.202
RFO 15.109

Preparing Solicitations
Lightning Round… Answers!
Contract Exhibits and Attachments
• What is the purpose of contract exhibits and attachments? See 
DFARS PGI 204.7105
• Exhibits: reduce number of line items. Communicate deliverables.
• Attachments: Incorporate other items (documents, specs, drawings, 
etc.) into our solicitations and contracts
• How do we treat contract exhibits and attachments when they are 
separately priced? Not separately priced? When data are separately 
priced, enter the price in Section B of the contract (the Data CLIN). 
Not separately priced; include prices in a (non-Data) priced contract 
line item or subline item.
• How are they numbered/identified/labeled? Use alpha characters 
to identify exhibits. The alpha characters shall be either single or 
double capital letters. Do not use the letters I or O. Use numbers to 
identify attachments.
14

Preparing Solicitations
Contract Exhibits and Attachments – Made Simple
• Exhibits: Require something to be DELIVERED – Use Alpha (e.g., 
AC)characters to identify
• Data (CDRLs)
• First Article
• Etc.
Either Priced Separately or NOT Priced Separately
• Attachments: Must be READ and FOLLOWED – Use Numbers (e.g. 04) 
to identify 
• Incorporates other documents (specifications, drawings, 
instructions, etc.) into our solicitations and contracts.
• Example: DD Form 254 Contract Security Specification Guide
15

Preparing Solicitations
Lightning Round… Answers!
Amending Solicitations
• When do we amend? See RFO 15.106, When, either before or after 
receipt of proposals, the Government changes its requirements or 
terms and conditions, the contracting officer must amend the 
solicitation
• Who receives amendments? See RFO 15.106
• Before time/date of proposal receipt -- Before the established time and date for 
receipt of proposals shall be issued to all parties receiving the solicitation
• After time/date of proposal receipt -- after the established time and date for receipt 
of proposals shall be issued to all offerors that have not been eliminated from the 
competition.
• What is included? See RFO 15.106(b), 7 items (issuing activity to 
revised closing date if any).
16

17
• T&M or LH contract type – allowed? See RFO 12.104(b) “may” when…
• Streamlined procedures – technical evaluation Includes? See RFO 12.203(a)
Contracting Methods
Simplified Procedures (SP) (FAR part 12 and 13)
• When do we use SAP? See RFO 12.201-1(d) and 13.0031(a) 
• SAP methods include? See 12.201-1 /13.201 points to 12 (GPC, PO, BPA, Innovation 
encouraged.)
• Basis on which most purchase orders are issued? (See 12.104) Fixed-Price
• Is a quotation an offer? See 12.201-1(b)No
• How do we evaluate quotations or offers? See 12.203 (13.202) Broad 
discretion under 12.203(c)(2)
• Past performance – required? See RFO 12.203(a)(2) “should”
Commercial Products and Services (FAR part 12)

Contracting Methods (cont’d)
Sealed Bidding (FAR part ?) RFO part 14
• Conditions for use? 6.101(b):
(1) Time permits, (2) Price and Price related factors only, (3) No discussions 
necessary, & (4) will get more than 1. Also, 14.1(b)
• Contract types allowed? 14.1(c): 
“shall be firm-fixed-price contracts or fixed-price contracts with economic 
price adjustment.”
Contracting by Negotiation (FAR part ?) RFO part 15
• Sole Source or Competitive? 15.000 and 15.002
• Contract types allowed? RFO 16.101 
… may be of any type or combination of types But no CPPC
18

The Army requires construction of a new motor pool facility. The specifications 
are clear, award will be made strictly on price, and discussions are not 
expected.
Which procurement method is most appropriate?
A. Simplified Acquisition Procedures
B. Sealed Bidding
C. Negotiated Procurement
D. Other Transaction Authority
The Air Force is seeking contractors to provide cybersecurity support services 
valued at $15 million. Price, past performance, and technical factors will be 
evaluated, and discussions are anticipated.
Which procurement method is most appropriate?
A. Simplified Acquisition Procedures
B. Sealed Bidding
C. Negotiated Procurement
D. Micro-purchase Procedures
www.DAU.edu 19

www.DAU.edu 20
A contracting officer needs to purchase $180,000 worth of office desks. 
Several commercial vendors can meet the need.
Which procurement method is most appropriate?
A. Simplified Acquisition Procedures
B. Sealed Bidding
C. Negotiated Procurement
D. Sole Source
The Navy needs to buy $4,000,000 of commercial laptops. Multiple vendors 
can meet the requirement. Evaluation will consider past performance in 
addition to price.
Which procurement method is most appropriate?
A. Simplified Acquisition Procedures
B. Sealed Bidding
C. Negotiated Procurement
D. Micro-purchase Procedures

Putting It All Together
Sealed Bidding Contracting by Negotiation SP
Procedures are located in… FAR part 14 FAR part 15 FAR part 12 & 13
The solicitation is called… Invitation for bids Request for proposals Request for quotes or offers
(FAR 12.201-1(a)/13.201
The offer is called… Bids Proposals Quotations or offers
(FAR12.201-1(b)
Authorized contract types 
are…
FFP & FP with EPA All Generally fixed-price basis
(FAR12.104(a)
Authorized evaluation factors 
are…
Price and price-related 
factors Price and non-price factors
Need not be more detailed than 
technical (capability of the products 
or services offered to meet the 
agency’s needs), price, and past 
performance.
(FAR12.203/13.202)
Relative importance of each 
evaluation factor or 
subfactor…
N/A Must be stated in the 
solicitation
In the solicitation, notify potential 
quoters or offerors of the basis on 
which the agency will make the 
award decision. FAR 12.203(b)

Request Offers
12 Questions
22

Provisions and Clauses Identity Crisis!
TYPE your answer in the chat
1. I am in a solicitation and apply only before award. What am I?
2. I am in a contract or solicitation. I apply both before and after award. What am I?
3. I am that place in the FAR where the conditions, requirements, and instructions 
for using provision or clauses is provided. What is my name?
4. I am FAR clause 52.203-3 Gratuities. What FAR part prescribes me?
5. I am a solicitation for a commercial item. What FAR part prescribes solicitation 
provisions and contract clauses I should contain?
A. FAR part 12 (FAR 12.205)
B. FAR part 3​
C. Prescription (FAR 52.101(c))​
D. Contract clause or “Clause” (FAR 2.101)​
E. Solicitation provision or “Provision” (FAR 2.101)​
23

Hear Ye, Hear Ye! - 1
TYPE in the CHAT
What FAR part addresses publicizing contract actions?
A. Yes - FAR part 5.
B. FAR part 7.
C. FAR part 6.
24

Hear Ye, Hear Ye! - 22
A. According to FAR policy, we must publicize contract actions to?
1. Increase ____________ ;
2. __________ industry participation in meeting Government requirements; and
3. Inform ________ ____________ __________ of contract and subcontract 
opportunities.
B. Where do we post presolicitation notices for proposed contract actions 
greater than $20,000? 
small business concerns
competition
broaden
The GPE
FAR 5.002
FAR 5.101(a)

Issuing and Amending Solicitations
After release of the request for proposal (RFP), who is the 
focal point for any exchanges with industry?
What must the contracting officer do if they believe a 
proposed amendment, after offers have been received, is so 
substantial as to exceed what prospective offerors reasonably 
could have anticipated as a change to the RFP?
______________ ______________ may be used for an 
amendment when time is of the essence. 
_________ ________ is used to amend a solicitation. 
SF 30 [FAR 15.106(c)] 
Contracting officer [FAR 15.201(c)(1)]
Cancel the RFP and issue a new one, regardless 
of the stage of the acquisition. [FAR 15.106(e)(2)]
Oral notices [FAR 15.106(d)]

Plan Sales/Prepare Offer
6 Questions
27

28
Plan Sales
Conducting Pre-Sales Activities
• Why does a company analyze its customer relationships?
To determine their customer’s needs and what products or services they can offer to 
meet those needs, to understand how they can leverage their core competencies, and 
what opportunities they have to communicate with customers and potentially shape 
their requirements.
• Why do companies assess their competition?
Evaluate what differentiates them from their competitors, to assess their probability of 
winning an award, to help develop and adjust corporate and pricing strategies, to help 
make investment decisions, etc. 

29
Plan Sales
Evaluating a Solicitation
• What information in a solicitation is most important to a potential offeror during an initial 
review?
• What is being bought (Section B)
• The statement of work (Section C, or an attachment in Section J)
 Instructions on how to prepare the offer (Section L)
 How the offer will be evaluated (Section M)
 When and where the offer must be submitted (Section A)
Conduct Offer/No-Offer Analysis
• What are some things a company may consider when making an offer/no-offer decision?
• Proposal costs
 Price to Win/Probability of winning the award
 Potential financial gain
 Relationship with the customer/Reputation
 Key strengths
 Knowledge of the requirement/ Ability to deliver/perform

30
Prepare Offer
Teaming Arrangements
• Why does industry form teams? To combine complementary capabilities and share 
resources, when the scope of work is broad, to be more competitive, to spread cost and 
performance risk amount multiple companies
• What is a “contractor team arrangement”? Is when two or more companies form a 
partnership or joint venture as a potential prime contractor, or a prime contractor making 
agreements with other companies for them to act as subcontractors for a specific 
Government contract. [FC 9.000]
Finalizing an Offer
• What are the characteristics of a good offer?
• Compliant with Sections L and M
• Responsive to the requirement
 Competitive
 Easy to read and understand
 Compelling and credible
 Consistent in tone, intent, and format across all volumes
 Error-free
1. Shows they fully UNDERSTAND the 
requirement!
2. That they’ve developed/have a way to 
complete and deliver the requirement.
3. They explain how they will do it within any 
cost, schedule or quality requirements the 
solicitation includes.

• GFP – when we can supply it
• Publicizing basics – thresholds and timelines
• Conditions for sealed bidding
• Best value continuum—what is LPTA/Tradeoffs when we use each
• Anti-deficiency Act, Bona Fide Need, Misappropriations
• Authorization, appropriation, commitment, obligation, expenditure
• Funding – current, expired, canceled
• Thresholds
Additional Things to Study

Session 2 Wrap-Up
•Any Questions
•Next session focus – Contract Award
32

Check for Understanding
Session 2

A. Obtain written assurance from the responsible fiscal 
authority that adequate funds are available
B. Obtain written assurance from the paying office that 
adequate funds are available
C. Confirm the Appropriations Bill has passed
D. Obtain written assurance from the head of the 
contracting office that adequate funds are available
35
It is the Government’s policy that the 
contracting officer generally must do what 
before executing a contract?

A. Contracting officers always have discretion regarding when 
to use small business set-asides
B. Contracting officers are not required to encourage maximum 
participation by small business concerns
C. All acquisition strategies to further small business policies 
and goals are discretionary
D. It is the Government’s policy to provide maximum 
practicable opportunities in its acquisitions to small business
36
Which one of the following statements about 
small business policies is true?

A. Promote competition to the maximum extent 
practicable
B. Consider soliciting from a single source to 
streamline efforts
C. Promote the use of unpriced purchase orders for 
time-saving purposes
D. Improve opportunities for large businesses
37
Simplified procedures should:

A. Any type that does not include an incentive
B. Firm-fixed-price or fixed-price contracts with 
economic price adjustment
C. Any fixed-price contract type
D. Any type, or combination of types, the contracting 
officer determines appropriate
38
Which contract type(s) can be used to 
acquire commercial products?

A. They are required for all contracts with large business, 
regardless of location
B. They are required for contracts with small business concerns
C. They are not required for contracts performed outside the 
U.S. and its outlying areas
D. They are required for contracts for either personal or 
nonpersonal services
39
Which of the following statements regarding Small 
Business Subcontracting Plans is accurate?

A. In the same manner for all acquisitions to maintain 
consistency
B. Only if unsure as to whether adequate competition exists
C. Appropriate to the circumstances
D. Before awarding any task or delivery order, regardless of 
dollar value
40
Agencies must conduct market research:

A. Brand name or manufacturer features
B. Essential physical characteristics
C. Military specifications
D. Detailed design specifications
41
To the maximum extent practicable, requirements 
for the acquisition of supplies or services must be 
stated in terms of which of the following?

A. All parties receiving the solicitation
B. All parties in the competitive range
C. None; solicitations are modified, not amended
D. None; solicitations can’t be amended until after they 
have closed
42
Which offerors receive an amendment to a 
solicitation that hasn’t closed?

A. Only when the uniform contract format does not apply
B. The only exception is when the provision or clause is used 
with an alternate
C. The only exception is when the provision or clause contains 
a blank that must be filled in by the contracting officer
D. To the maximum practical extent
43
When should provisions and clauses be 
incorporated by reference in solicitations and 
contracts?

A. Firm-fixed-price
B. Cost-plus-award-fee
C. Fixed-price with Economic Price Adjustment
D. Time-and-Materials
44
Which contract type would likely be used for an 
item that requires a large volume of precious 
metals in the manufacturing process?

A. They address fluctuations in market conditions
B. They ensure contractors meet the minimum contract 
requirements
C. They allow the Government to meet funding goals
D. They motivate contractor efforts that might not 
otherwise be emphasized
45
Which of the following describes how incentive 
contracts are designed to obtain specific 
acquisition objectives?